{{Short description|English footballer and coach (born 1972)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=November 2020}}
{{Use British English|date=July 2011}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Darren Bazeley
| image = Darren Bazeley (30 March).jpg
| image_size = 
| caption = Bazeley coaching the [[New Zealand men's national football team|All Whites]] in March 2026.
| full_name = Darren Shaun Bazeley<ref name="FIFA">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce89/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA U-20 World Cup Argentina 2023™ SQUAD LIST: New Zealand (NZL) |publisher=FIFA |page=17 |date=22 May 2023 |access-date=30 May 2023}}</ref>
| height = {{height|m=1.80}}
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|df=y|1972|10|5}}
| birth_place = [[Northampton]], England
| currentclub = [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]] (Head coach)
| position = [[Defender (association football)#Full-back|Right back]]
| youthyears1 = 1986–1991
| youthclubs1 = [[Watford F.C.|Watford]]
| years1 = 1989–1999
| years2 = 1999–2002
| years3 = 2002–2004
| years4 = 2005–2007
| years5 = 2007–2008
| clubs1 = [[Watford F.C.|Watford]]
| clubs2 = [[Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.|Wolverhampton Wanderers]]
| clubs3 = [[Walsall F.C.|Walsall]]
| clubs4 = [[New Zealand Knights FC|New Zealand Knights]]
| clubs5 = [[Waitakere United]]
| caps1 = 283
| caps2 = 70
| caps3 = 89
| caps4 = 41
| caps5 = 17
| goals1 = 21
| goals2 = 4
| goals3 = 0
| goals4 = 0
| goals5 = 1
| totalcaps = 456
| totalgoals = 26
| nationalyears1 = 1992
| nationalteam1 = [[England national under-21 football team|England U21]]
| nationalcaps1 = 1
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| manageryears1 = 2011–2013
| managerclubs1 = [[New Zealand national under-17 football team|New Zealand U17]]
| manageryears2 = 2013–2015
| managerclubs2 = [[Wanderers Special Club|Wanderers SC]]
| manageryears3 = 2013–2017
| managerclubs3 = [[New Zealand national under-20 football team|New Zealand U20]]
| manageryears4 = 2015–2017
| managerclubs4 = [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]] (assistant)
| manageryears5 = 2018–2019
| managerclubs5 = [[Colorado Rapids]] (assistant)
| manageryears6 = 2020
| managerclubs6 = [[Newcastle Jets FC|Newcastle Jets]]  (assistant)
| manageryears7 = 2020–2022
| managerclubs7 = [[New Zealand national under-20 football team|New Zealand U20]]
| manageryears8 = 2020–2022
| managerclubs8 = [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]] (assistant)
| manageryears9 = 2020–2022
| managerclubs9 = [[New Zealand national under-23 football team|New Zealand U23]]  (assistant)
| manageryears10 = 2022–
| managerclubs10 = [[New Zealand national under-23 football team|New Zealand U23]]
| manageryears11 = 2022–2023
| managerclubs11 = [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]] (technical director)
| manageryears12 = 2023–
| managerclubs12 = [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]] 
}}

'''Darren Shaun Bazeley''' (born 5 October 1972) is an English [[association football|football]] coach and former player. He played as either a [[Defender (association football)#Full-back|right back]] or right-sided [[midfielder]]. He is head coach of the [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]] team and head coach of the [[New Zealand national under-23 football team|national U-23]] and Olympic sides.

==Playing career==
===Watford===
Bazeley was born in [[Northampton]], England, and began playing football at a young age with local team Northampton Orion. From 11 to 13 years old, Bazeley attended weekly training sessions with the School of Excellence – a coaching scheme run by [[The Football Association|the FA]].<ref>{{cite web|title=Darren Bazeley – Autobiography (Part 1) |url=http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?0 |work=ICONS.com |accessdate=5 July 2006 |url-status=dead |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20070927221710/http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?0 |archivedate=27 September 2007 }}</ref> It was through these sessions that Bazeley was scouted by [[Watford F.C.|Watford]], trialling with them before signing at the age of 14. Watford's youth team coach [[Colin Lee]] was appointed the club's manager in March 1990 and he gave Bazeley his first-team debut in the final match of the [[1989–90 in English football|1989–90]] season, bringing the 17-year-old on as a substitute against [[Hull City A.F.C.|Hull City]].<ref>{{cite web|title=Darren Bazeley – Autobiography (Part 2) |url=http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?1 |work=ICONS.com |accessdate=5 July 2006 |url-status=dead |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20070930181710/http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?1 |archivedate=30 September 2007 }}</ref> Bazeley made 10 appearances in the [[1990–91 in English football|1990–91]] campaign, all bar two as a substitute, and none after Lee was replaced by [[Steve Perryman]] in November 1990.

Bazeley signed his first [[professional sport|professional]] contract prior to the start of the [[1991–92 in English football|1991–92]] season and in September 1991 scored his first senior goal in a 3–0 win away at [[Barnsley F.C.|Barnsley]]. He finished the campaign with a total of seven goals from his 38 appearances. At the end of the season, Bazeley made his only appearance for the [[England national under-21 football team|England under-21 team]], playing 20 minutes in a 2–2 friendly draw against [[Hungary national under-21 football team|Hungary]].<ref>{{cite web| title=England – U-21 International Results 1986–1995 – Details| url=https://www.rsssf.org/tablese/eng-u21-intres86.html| work=[[RSSSF]]| accessdate=5 July 2006}}</ref> Bazeley played 26 matches in the 1992–93 season, half of them from the bench. Watford began the [[1993–94 in English football|following season]] under a new manager in [[Glenn Roeder]], but a [[medial collateral ligament]] saw Bazeley only make a total of 10 appearances in the campaign.<ref>{{cite web|title=Darren Bazeley – Autobiography (Part 3) |url=http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?2 |work=ICONS.com |accessdate=5 July 2006 |url-status=dead |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20070930181740/http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?2 |archivedate=30 September 2007 }}</ref> He was a more frequent presence in [[1994–95 in English football|1994–95]], making 37 appearances and scoring four goals - a hatrick in 4–0 win at [[Southend United F.C.|Southend United]] in early February and one in the subsequent match, a 2–0 home win over [[Burnley F.C.|Burnley]].

Bazeley was a regular in the side in the following two seasons, making over 40 league appearances in each. The [[1995–96 in English football|1995–96]] season saw Watford [[promotion and relegation|relegated]] in the final match of the campaign, before finishing 13th in the [[Football League Second Division|Second Division]] the following year. In [[1997–98 in English football|1997–98]], Bazeley only made three appearances before 28 February, but after returning to the side with two substitute appearances he would start every remaining match as Watford won the league title under manager [[Graham Taylor]]. Having appeared sporadically initially in [[1998–99 in English football|1998–99]], Bazeley was an ever present from 20 October as Watford reached the [[Football League First Division|First Division]] play-offs. Bazeley played the full match in both semi-final legs against [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]], scoring the fourth penalty in Watford's [[penalty shootout (association football)|shootout]] victory, and in the [[1999 Football League First Division play-off final|final]] at [[Wembley Stadium (1923)|Wembley]], which Watford won 2–0 to gain promotion to the [[Premier League|Premiership]].<ref>{{cite news |title=Hornets sting the Blues |url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sport/football/349123.stm|publisher=[[BBC]]|date=20 May 1999 |accessdate=24 May 2020}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sport/football/357452.stm|title=Watford back in the big time|publisher=BBC Sport |date=31 May 1999|accessdate=24 May 2020}}</ref>

===Wolverhampton Wanderers===
In the summer of 1999, Bazeley rejected a new contract at Watford. He chose to move on a free transfer to First Division club [[Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.|Wolverhampton Wanderers]], who were managed by Colin Lee. He played every minute of every league match for Wolves in the 1999–2000 season.<ref>{{cite web|title=Darren Bazeley – Autobiography (Part 4) |url=http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?3 |work=ICONS.com |accessdate=5 July 2006 |url-status=dead |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20070927222009/http://www.icons.com/bazeley/biog.html?3 |archivedate=27 September 2007}}</ref> On 23 December 2001, he twisted his knee and tore cartilage in a match against [[Sheffield Wednesday F.C.|Sheffield Wednesday]]. The match would prove to be his last for Wolves, as the injury kept him out of the remainder of the season and all of the 2001–02 campaign. In total, Bazeley made 80 appearances for the club, scoring four goals.

===Walsall===
In July 2002, Bazeley moved to First Division club [[Walsall F.C.|Walsall]], again working under Lee. Bazeley won the fans' "best new signing" award in 2002–03 season as Walsall finished 17th, their highest-place finish for 41 years. The club suffered relegation in 2003–04 and Bazeley left Walsall in November 2004. He had made 100 appearances for the club and was later described as "one of the best attacking fullbacks the Saddlers ever had."<ref name="Walsall fans">{{cite web| title=Darren Bazeley Profile| url=http://www.sportnetwork.net/main/s44/st11006.php| work=Walsallfans.co.uk| accessdate=5 July 2006}}</ref>

===New Zealand Knights===
Bazeley signed with the re-invented [[New Zealand Knights FC|New Zealand Knights]] for the new Australian [[A-League Men|A-League]], alongside former Wolves and Walsall teammate [[Neil Emblen]]. Bazeley played every minute of the club's 21 A-League matches in the [[2005–06 A-League|2005–06 season]], and took over the captaincy from [[Danny Hay]] when the defender transferred to [[Perth Glory FC|Perth Glory]] mid-season. Bazeley stayed with the Knights for 2006–07 until the club's dissolution.<ref>{{cite web|title=2006/07 Knights Signings |url=http://www.nzknights.com/default.aspx?s=newsdisplay&id=3362 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20060820221936/http://www.nzknights.com/default.aspx?s=newsdisplay&id=3362 |url-status=dead |archivedate=20 August 2006 |date=5 July 2006 |accessdate=5 July 2006 }}</ref>

Bazeley played for Waitakere United in the [[New Zealand Football Championship]] in 2007–08 season, winning the league title. He also represented the club at the [[2007 FIFA Club World Cup]] in Japan, where Waitakere lost 3–1 in the play-off round to Iranian side [[Sepahan S.C.|Sepahan]].

==Coaching career==
Bazeley holds the [[UEFA A License]].<ref>{{cite web| title=Darren Bazeley – Developing youth players in New Zealand| url=http://www.nff.org.nz/darren-bazeley-developing-youth-players-in-new-zealand| accessdate=5 December 2016| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170422074449/http://www.nff.org.nz/darren-bazeley-developing-youth-players-in-new-zealand/| archive-date=22 April 2017| url-status=dead}}</ref>

===Waitakere United===
In 2008, Bazeley became head coach of [[Waitakere United]] youth team. He became assistant of the club's senior team in June 2009, working under his former Wolves teammate Emblen, the side's head coach.<ref>{{cite web| title=Waitakere United names new coach to replace Milicich| url=http://www.radionz.co.nz/news/sport/21565/waitakere-united-names-new-coach-to-replace-milicich| date=20 June 2009| accessdate=5 December 2016}}</ref> The club winning the [[New Zealand Football Championship]] for all three seasons.<ref>{{cite web| title=Waitakere claim third consecutive title| url=https://www.fifa.com/live-scores/news/y=2012/m=4/news=waitakere-claim-third-consecutive-title-1621880.html| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20161220114719/http://www.fifa.com/live-scores/news/y=2012/m=4/news=waitakere-claim-third-consecutive-title-1621880.html| url-status=dead| archive-date=20 December 2016| date=27 April 2012| accessdate=5 December 2016}}</ref>

===New Zealand set-up===
In 2009, Bazeley was appointed assistant coach for the [[New Zealand national under-17 football team|New Zealand U-17]] national team. The side played at the [[2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup]] in Nigeria, reaching the competition's knock-out stages for the first time. Having continued in the role through the [[2011 FIFA U-17 World Cup]] in Mexico, where the side again reached the knock-out phases, Bazeley was appointed head coach of the team in June 2012.<ref>{{cite web| title=Milicich retained, Bazeley promoted| url=http://m.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&objectid=10811416| date=7 June 2012| accessdate=5 December 2016}}</ref> In April 2013 his side won all five matches at the [[2013 OFC U-17 Championship]] to qualify for the [[2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup]] in the [[United Arab Emirates]].

In September 2013, Bazeley was appointed as head coach of the [[New Zealand national under-20 football team|New Zealand U-20]] national team, but he remained in charge of the U-17s for the World Cup the following month, in which New Zealand lost all three matches to finish bottom of their group.<ref>{{cite web| title=Soccer: Bazeley appointed Junior All Whites coach| url=https://www.nzherald.co.nz/sport/soccer-bazeley-appointed-junior-all-whites-coach/QAWTROPVJMUY6H7J6OBTM2GIBE/| date=2 September 2013| accessdate=18 November 2020}}</ref> New Zealand were the host nation of the [[2015 FIFA U-20 World Cup]] and so did not need to qualify. During the build-up to the tournament, Bazeley was appointed head coach of [[Wanderers Special Club|Wanderers SC]], an U-20-side competing in the senior [[New Zealand Football Championship]], while in March 2015 he worked as assistant coach of the [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand national team]] for the first time.<ref>{{cite web| title=All Whites depart for Korea test| url=http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/all-whites-depart-for-korea-test| date=22 March 2015| accessdate=5 December 2016| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170502071824/http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/all-whites-depart-for-korea-test/| archive-date=2 May 2017| url-status=dead}}</ref>

At the 2015 U-20 World Cup, New Zealand beat [[Myanmar national under-20 football team|Myanmar]] 5–1 in their final group game, their first ever win in the competition. They qualified for the knock-out stages as one of the best-ranked third-place teams, the first time they had reached that stage in the competition.<ref>{{cite web| title=U-20s make history in Wellington| url=http://m.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&objectid=11460629| date=5 June 2015| accessdate=5 December 2016}}</ref> In the round of 16 they lost 2–1 to [[Portugal national under-20 football team|Portugal]], who scored an 87th-minute winner.<ref>{{cite web| title=Portugal break NZ hearts| url=http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/portugal-break-nz-hearts/| date=11 June 2015| accessdate=5 December 2016| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20161220054740/http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/portugal-break-nz-hearts/| archive-date=20 December 2016| url-status=dead}}</ref>

Bazeley led the U-20 team to a victory at [[2016 OFC U-20 Championship]] in [[Vanuatu]], qualifying for the [[2017 FIFA U-20 World Cup]] in [[South Korea]].<ref>{{cite web| title=Bazeley names strong FIFA U-20 WC squad| url=http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/bazeley-names-strong-fifa-u-20-wc-squad/| date=8 May 2017| accessdate=30 November 2017| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170512053458/http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/bazeley-names-strong-fifa-u-20-wc-squad/| archive-date=12 May 2017| url-status=dead}}</ref> At the finals Bazeley's side again reached the knock-out stages, finishing second in their group and securing a 3–1 win against Honduras.<ref>{{cite web| title=History-makers aim to go one better| url=http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/history-makers-aim-to-go-one-better/| date=1 June 2017| accessdate=30 November 2017| archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20171201032123/http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/history-makers-aim-to-go-one-better/| archive-date=1 December 2017| url-status=dead}}</ref> They were defeated 6–0 in the round of 16 by the [[United States men's national under-20 soccer team|United States]].

Bazeley continued to work with the senior side as they won at the [[2016 OFC Nations Cup]] and played at the [[2017 FIFA Confederations Cup]] in [[Russia]]. In September 2017 the side won the [[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification – OFC third round|third round]] of [[Oceania Football Confederation|OFC]] qualifying to reach the [[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (OFC–CONMEBOL play-off)|OFC–CONMEBOL play-off]]. New Zealand lost the two-legged play-off, held in November 2017, 2–0 on aggregate to [[Peru national football team|Peru]] to miss out on qualification for the [[2018 FIFA World Cup]]. By the time of the play-off, Bazeley was the only assistant coach working with head coach [[Anthony Hudson (footballer)|Anthony Hudson]], following the departures of [[Peter Taylor (footballer, born 1953)|Peter Taylor]] and Alex Armstrong.<ref>{{cite web| title=Bazeley tipped to follow Hudson to MLS franchise| url=http://www.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&objectid=11947980| date=26 November 2017| accessdate=30 November 2017}}</ref>

===Colorado Rapids===
Following the play-off defeat Hudson was appointed head coach of [[Major League Soccer]] side [[Colorado Rapids]] and in December 2017 Bazeley was appointed his assistant head coach.<ref>{{cite web| title=Anthony Hudson takes two All Whites staff with him to the Colorado Rapids| url=https://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/football/world-game/99480418/anthony-hudson-takes-two-all-whites-staff-with-him-to-the-colorado-rapids| date=3 December 2017| accessdate=2 July 2019}}</ref>

===Newcastle Jets and return to New Zealand set-up===
In April 2020 Bazeley joined A-League side [[Newcastle Jets FC|Newcastle Jets]] as assistant coach to his former Wolves teammate [[Carl Robinson]].<ref>{{cite web| title=Bazeley joins Hyundai A-League coaching staff| url=https://www.newcastlejets.com.au/news/bazeley-joins-hyundai-a-league-coaching-staff| date=9 June 2020| accessdate=11 November 2020}}</ref> In October 2020 he left the role to return to the position of New Zealand U-20 head coach and assistant coach of the national and Olympic sides. Bazeley cited the travel conditions as a result of the [[COVID-19 pandemic]] and his family in New Zealand as factors in his departure from Newcastle.<ref>{{cite web| title=A-League: Bazeley to take on New Zealand national team role| url=https://www.newcastlejets.com.au/news/a-league-bazeley-take-new-zealand-national-team-role| date=6 October 2020| accessdate=11 November 2020}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
{|class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|[[FA Cup]]
!colspan="2"|[[EFL Cup|League Cup]]
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan=11|[[Watford F.C.|Watford]]
|[[1989–90 Football League#Second Division|1989–90]]
|rowspan=3|{{nowrap|[[Football League Second Division|Second Division]]}}
|||||||||2||0||||||||
|-
|[[1990–91 Football League#Second Division|1990–91]]
|||||3||0||2||0||||||||
|-
|[[1991–92 Football League#Second Division|1991–92]]
|||||1||0||2||1||||||||
|-
|[[1992–93 Football League#First Division|1992–93]]
|rowspan=4|[[Football League First Division|First Division]]
|||||||||2||0||||||||
|-
|[[1993–94 Football League#First Division|1993–94]]
|||||||||||||||||||
|-
|[[1994–95 Football League#First Division|1994–95]]
|||||5||0||2||0||||||||
|-
|[[1995–96 Football League#First Division|1995–96]]
|41||1||3||0||3||1||colspan=2|—||47||2
|-
|[[1996–97 Football League#Second Division|1996–97]]
|rowspan=2|Second Division
|41||3||4||3||3||0||3{{efn|name=EFLT|Appearances in [[EFL Trophy]]}}||1||51||7
|-
|[[1997–98 Football League#Second Division|1997–98]]
|16||3||0||0||0||0||0||0||16||3
|-
|[[1998–99 Football League#First Division|1998–99]]
|First Division
|40||2||1||0||2||0||3{{efn|name=EFLP|Appearances in [[English Football League play-offs|EFL play-offs]]}}||0||46||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!||||||||||||||||||
|-
|rowspan=4|{{nowrap|[[Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.|Wolverhampton Wanderers]]}}
|{{nowrap|[[1999–2000 Football League#First Division|1999–2000]]}}
|rowspan=3|First Division
|46||3||3||0||2||0||colspan=2|—||51||3
|-
|[[2000–01 Football League#First Division|2000–01]]
|24||1||0||0||5||0||colspan=2|—||29||1
|-
|[[2001–02 Football League#First Division|2001–02]]
|0||0||0||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||0||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!70||4||3||0||7||0||0||0||80||4
|-
|rowspan=4|[[Walsall F.C.|Walsall]]
|[[2002–03 Walsall F.C. season|2002–03]]
|rowspan=2|First Division
|43||0||4||0||3||0||colspan=2|—||50||0
|-
|[[2003–04 Walsall F.C. season|2003–04]]
|39||0||1||0||2||0||colspan=2|—||42||0
|-
|[[2004–05 in English football#Football League One|2004–05]]
|[[EFL League One|League One]]
|7||0||0||0||0||0||1{{efn|name=EFLT|Appearances in [[EFL Trophy]]}}||0|||8||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!89||0||5||0||5||0||1||0||100||0
|-
|rowspan=3|[[New Zealand Knights FC|New Zealand Knights]]
|[[2005–06 New Zealand Knights FC season|2005–06]]
|rowspan=2|[[A-League Men|A-League]]
|21||0||colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||21||0
|-
|[[2006–07 New Zealand Knights FC season|2006–07]]
|20||0||colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||20||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!41||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||41||0
|-
|[[Waitakere United]]
|[[2007–08 New Zealand Football Championship|2007–08]]
|[[New Zealand Football Championship|Premiership]]
|17||2||colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||7{{efn|Five appearances in [[OFC Men's Champions League|OFC Champions League]]; one appearance in [[New Zealand Football Championship]] play-offs; one appearances in [[FIFA Club World Cup]]}}||0||24||2
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!||||||||||||||||||
|}
{{notelist}}

==Personal life==
Bazeley became a New Zealand citizen in 2015 retaining his British citizenship.<ref>{{cite web |title=Darren Bazeley loving life as a Kiwi |url=https://www.expressandstar.com/sport/football/wolverhampton-wanderers-fc/2022/10/27/darren-bazeley-loving-life-as-a-kiwi/|publisher=[[Express & Star]] |accessdate=26 October 2022}}</ref>

==Managerial statistics==
{{updated|match played 6 June 2026}}
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: left;"
|+ Managerial record by team and tenure
|-
!rowspan="2"|Team
!rowspan="2"|From
!rowspan="2"|To
!colspan="5"|Record
!rowspan="2"|{{Tooltip|Ref.|Reference}}
|-
!{{abbr|G|Matches played}}!!{{abbr|W|Matches won}}!!{{abbr|D|Matches drawn}}!!{{abbr|L|Matches lost}}!!{{abbr|Win %|Win percentage}}
|-
|[[New Zealand men's national under-17 football team|New Zealand U17]]
|2011
|31 October 2013
{{WDL|8|5|0|3}}
|
|-
|[[Wanderers Special Club|Wanderers SC]]
|1 November 2013
|30 June 2015
{{WDL|30|6|4|20}}
|
|-
|[[New Zealand men's national under-20 football team|New Zealand U20]]
|1 November 2013
|2 December 2017
{{WDL|16|8|3|5}}
|
|-
|[[New Zealand men's national under-20 football team|New Zealand U20]]
|6 October 2020
|31 December 2022
{{WDL|10|7|1|2}}
|
|-
|[[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]]
|1 November 2022
|present
{{WDL|33|13|6|14}}
|<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.nzfootball.co.nz/newsarticle/130353?newsfeedPageNum=3|title=Darren Bazeley appointed All Whites head coach|date=4 July 2023|website=New Zealand Football}}</ref>
|-
|[[New Zealand men's national under-23 football team|New Zealand U23]]
|1 November 2022
|present
{{WDL|9|6|0|3}}
|
|-
! colspan=3 | '''Career Total'''
{{WDLtot|106|45|14|47}} 
!—
|}

==Honours==
{{BLP unreferenced section|date=September 2023}}
'''New Zealand U-20'''
* Qualification for [[FIFA U-20 World Cup]] 2015 in New Zealand: Round of 16
* [[OFC U-20 Championship]]: [[2016 OFC U-20 Championship|2016]] champion
* Qualification for [[FIFA U-20 World Cup]] 2017 in Republic of Korea: Round of 16

'''New Zealand'''
* Qualification for [[FIFA Confederations Cup]] 2017 in Russia
* [[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (inter-confederation play-offs)|2018 FIFA World Cup qualification]] OFC Finals winner
* [[OFC Nations Cup]]: [[2024 OFC Nations Cup|2024]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
{{Commons category|Darren Bazeley}}
* {{Soccerbase|id=515}}

{{Current managers of OFC national teams}}
{{Navboxes
| title = New Zealand squads
| bg          = black
| fg          = white
| bordercolor = black
| list =
{{New Zealand squad 2024 OFC Men's Nations Cup}}
{{New Zealand men's football squad 2024 Summer Olympics}}
{{New Zealand squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}
{{New Zealand national football team managers}}
{{OFC Nations Cup winning managers}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Bazeley, Darren}}
[[Category:1972 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Northampton]]
[[Category:English men's footballers]]
[[Category:England men's under-21 international footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football full-backs]]
[[Category:New Zealand Knights FC players]]
[[Category:Walsall F.C. players]]
[[Category:Watford F.C. players]]
[[Category:Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C. players]]
[[Category:A-League Men players]]
[[Category:Waitakere United players]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's association footballers in New Zealand]]
[[Category:English expatriate sportspeople in New Zealand]]
[[Category:Naturalised citizens of New Zealand]]
[[Category:English emigrants to New Zealand]]
[[Category:New Zealand Football Championship players]]
[[Category:English Football League players]]
[[Category:Coaches at the 2024 Summer Olympics]]
[[Category:2024 OFC Men's Nations Cup managers]]
[[Category:New Zealand national football team managers]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup managers]]