{{short description|Greek football manager and former player|bot=PearBOT 5}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2026}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Giorgos Donis
| image = 
| fullname = Georgios Donis
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1969|10|22|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Frankfurt]], [[West Germany]]
| death_date = 
| height = {{height|m=1.80}}
| position = [[Midfielder]]
| currentclub = [[Saudi Arabia national football team|Saudi Arabia]] (head coach)
| youthyears1 = {{0|0000}}–1986
| youthclubs1 = Doxa Nikopolis
| youthyears2 = 1986–1987
| youthclubs2 = AO Pavlos Melas
| youthyears3 = 1987–1988
| youthclubs3 = [[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]]
| years1 = 1988–1996
| clubs1 = [[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]]
| caps1 = 107
| goals1 = 31
| years2 = 1988–1989
| clubs2 = → [[Athinaikos F.C.|Athinaikos]] (loan)
| caps2 = 
| goals2 = 
| years3 = 1989–1990
| clubs3 = → [[Panargiakos F.C.|Panargiakos]] (loan)
| caps3 = 
| goals3 = 
| years4 = 1990–1991
| clubs4 = → [[PAS Giannina F.C.|PAS Giannina]] (loan)
| caps4 = 22
| goals4 = 3
| years5 = 1996–1997
| clubs5 = [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]]
| caps5 = 22
| goals5 = 2
| years6 = 1997–1999
| clubs6 = [[AEK Athens F.C.|AEK Athens]]
| caps6 = 30
| goals6 = 2
| years7 = 1999
| clubs7 = [[Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United]]
| caps7 = 7
| goals7 = 1
| years8 = 1999–2000
| clubs8 = [[Huddersfield Town A.F.C.|Huddersfield Town]]
| caps8 = 21
| goals8 = 0
| totalcaps = 239
| totalgoals = 43
| nationalyears1 = 1991–1997
| nationalteam1 = [[Greece national football team|Greece]]
| nationalcaps1 = 24
| nationalgoals1 = 5
| manageryears1 = 2002–2004
| managerclubs1 = [[Ilisiakos F.C.|Ilisiakos]]
| manageryears2 = 2004–2008
| managerclubs2 = [[Athlitiki Enosi Larissa F.C.|AEL]]
| manageryears3 = 2008
| managerclubs3 = [[AEK Athens F.C.|AEK Athens]]
| manageryears4 = 2009–2012
| managerclubs4 = [[Atromitos F.C.|Atromitos]]
| manageryears5 = 2012–2013
| managerclubs5 = [[PAOK FC|PAOK]]
| manageryears6 = 2013–2015
| managerclubs6 = [[APOEL FC|APOEL]]
| manageryears7 = 2015–2016
| managerclubs7 = [[Al-Hilal FC|Al-Hilal]]
| manageryears8 = 2016–2017
| managerclubs8 = [[Sharjah FC|Sharjah]]
| manageryears9 = 2017–2018
| managerclubs9 = [[APOEL FC|APOEL]]
| manageryears10 = 2018–2020
| managerclubs10 = [[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]]
| manageryears11 = 2020
| managerclubs11 = [[Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C.|Maccabi Tel Aviv]]
| manageryears12 = 2021
| managerclubs12 = [[Al Wehda FC|Al-Wehda]]
| manageryears13 = 2022–2023
| managerclubs13 = [[Al Fateh SC|Al Fateh]]
| manageryears14 = 2023–2024
| managerclubs14 = [[Al Wehda FC|Al-Wehda]]
| manageryears15 = 2024–2026
| managerclubs15 = [[Al-Khaleej FC|Al-Khaleej]]
| manageryears16 = 2026–
| managerclubs16 = [[Saudi Arabia national football team|Saudi Arabia]]
}}

'''Georgios Donis''' ({{langx|el|Γεώργιος Δώνης}}; born 22 October 1969) is a Greek former professional [[Association football|footballer]] who played as a [[midfielder]] and currently the head coach of [[Saudi Arabia national football team|Saudi Arabia national team]]. He was the first ever Greek to play in the [[English Premier League]]. In England, he was also known as '''George Donis'''.

==Early years==
Donis was born and raised in [[Frankfurt]], [[West Germany]] until he was six years old and the family moved back to their native [[Greece]]. His parents had lived in Frankfurt for "many years" and he still has family ties there.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.uefa.org/news/newsid=2034035.html|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160430095524/http://www.uefa.org/news/newsid%3D2034035.html|archive-date=30 April 2016|title=Donis back where it all began with APOEL|date=9 December 2013|publisher=uefa.org|url-status=dead}}</ref>

==Club career==
Donis started his senior career with [[PAS Giannina F.C.|PAS Giannina]] in 1990, and after one successful year he moved to [[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]]. The supporters of the team named him ''the Train'' for his remarkable acceleration.

On 5 June 1996, after helping the Greek club reach the [[UEFA Champions League]] semi-finals against [[Ajax FC|Ajax]], Donis moved to [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]] on a free transfer, making use of the then recent [[Bosman ruling]] signing for 1.1 billion [[Modern drachma|drachmas]], a record amount for Greek players at the time. He had an erratic season with Blackburn, scoring against [[Everton F.C.|Everton]] and Coventry City.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/donis-fills-the-void-in-attack-1364578.html|title=Donis fills the void in attack|work=[[The Independent]]|date=21 September 1996 |access-date=6 November 2009| location=London| first=Steve| last=Edwards}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.4thegame.com/matchcentre/premiership/reports/75305/brfcccfc.html|title=Blackburn 4 – 0 Coventry|publisher=4TheGame|date=11 January 1997|access-date=6 November 2009 }}{{dead link|date=January 2017 |bot=InternetArchiveBot|fix-attempted=yes }}</ref>

On 12 December 1997 Donis returned to Greece and signed for [[AEK Athens F.C.|AEK Athens]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.tanea.gr/1997/12/12/sports/symfwnia-me-sempoye-dwni/|title=Συμφωνία με Σέμπουε - Δώνη|date=12 December 1997|website=tanea.gr}}</ref> During his spell at the club, he did not manage to achieve his past performances. Furthermore, he came in collision with both managers, [[Dumitru Dumitriu]] and [[Dragoslav Stepanović]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.aekpedia.com/giorgos-donis/|title=Γιώργος Δώνης|website=aekpedia.com}}</ref> On 23 March 1999 following his realse from AEK, he returned to England, and signed for [[Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United]]<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.tanea.gr/1999/03/24/sports/itan-manatzer-o-stepi/|title=Ήταν μάνατζερ ο "Στέπι"|date=24 March 1999|website=tanea.gr}}</ref> until the end of the season. Afterwards, he played for [[Huddersfield Town A.F.C.|Huddersfield Town]], where he ended his career in 2000.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.independent.co.uk/sport/football-dejected-ipswich-head-for-playoff-lottery-1092655.html|title=Dejected Ipswich head for play-off lottery|work=[[The Independent]]|date=9 May 1999 |access-date=6 November 2009|location=London|first=Kieran| last=Daley}}{{dead link|date=August 2021|bot=medic}}{{cbignore|bot=medic}}</ref>

==International career==
Donis made his debut for [[Greece national football team|Greece]] on 22 December 1991, in a 1–1 draw against [[Malta national football team|Malta]] for the [[UEFA Euro 1992 qualifying]] round.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.uefa.com/uefaeuro/match/3021--malta-vs-greece/|title=History: Malta 1-1 Greece &#124; UEFA EURO 1992|website=UEFA.com}}</ref> He appeared in 24 matches and scored five goals during his international career with Greece.

==Managerial career==

===AEL===
After the end of his playing career, he turned to coaching. Starting in 2002, he led [[Zografou]]-based [[Ilisiakos F.C.|Ilisiakos]] in two consecutive promotions from the fourth to the second Greek football level. He then made the move to [[Athlitiki Enosi Larissa F.C.|AEL]] where, after one season, he managed to bring the team to the [[Super League Greece|Greek Super League]] from the second division, and reached eighth place the following year. In 2007, Larissa finished only tenth in the league, but he managed to win the [[2006–07 Greek Cup|Greek Cup]] after defeating [[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]] 2–1 in the final.<ref>{{Cite web|url=http://www.uefa.com/footballeurope/news/kind=2/newsid=535707.html|title=Unlikely Larissa take Greek Cup}}</ref> In his first taste of European football management, his team AEL defeated his former team [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]] to reach the [[2007–08 UEFA Cup]] [[2007–08 UEFA Cup group stage|group stages]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=http://www.uefa.com/competitions/uefacup/news/kind=1/newsid=599067.html|title=uefa.com - UEFA Cup - News & Features - News Specific|website=www.uefa.com}}</ref> He finished a great year in sixth place in the league, missing out on the season play-offs on goal difference.

===AEK Athens===
On 25 April 2008, Donis stepped down as manager of AEL and on 14 May he was appointed as head coach of [[AEK Athens F.C.|AEK Athens]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=http://www.uefa.com/footballeurope/news/kind=2/newsid=696219.html|title=uefa.com - Football Europe - News & Features - News Specific|website=www.uefa.com}}</ref>
On 17 November 2008, due to a string of poor performances and early knock out from the [[UEFA Cup]], AEK parted company with him just six months after his appointment.<ref>[http://www.sportingreece.com/kb/article.asp?fIndex=2557 Donis's brief tenure at AEK is over] {{webarchive |url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120217162426/http://www.sportingreece.com/kb/article.asp?fIndex=2557 |date=17 February 2012 }}</ref>

===Atromitos===
In 2009, Donis was appointed by [[Atromitos F.C.|Atromitos]] and in the 2010–11 season he again reached the [[2010–11 Greek Cup|Greek Cup]] [[2011 Greek Cup Final|Final]] only to lose 0–3 to his former team [[AEK Athens F.C.|AEK Athens]]. In the next year, Atromitos enjoyed another successful spell under his guidance, reaching the [[2011–12 Greek Football Cup|Greek Cup]] [[2012 Greek Cup Final|Final]] for a second consecutive time (losing 1–2 to [[Olympiacos F.C.|Olympiacos]] at [[Overtime (sports)|extra time]]), as well as participating at the [[2011–12 Super League Greece#Play-offs|Greek Super League play-offs]].

===PAOK===
On 31 May 2012, [[PAOK FC|PAOK]] appointed Donis as the new manager of the club, on a two-year contract, with immediate effect.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.paokfc.gr/swift.jsp?CMCCode=1002&CMRCode=16UHQPGGE |script-title=el:Νέος προπονητής της ομάδας ο Γιώργος Δώνης |publisher=paokfc.gr |language=el |date=31 May 2012 |access-date=6 June 2012 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131012052011/http://www.paokfc.gr/swift.jsp?CMCCode=1002&CMRCode=16UHQPGGE |archive-date=12 October 2013}}</ref> On 28 April 2013, after a crucial defeat 0–2 and the elimination in the semi-final of [[2012–13 Greek Football Cup|Greek Cup]] by [[Asteras Tripolis F.C.|Asteras Tripolis]], he was sacked by chairman [[Ivan Savvidis]].<ref>[http://olapaok.gr/podosfairo/Proponitis/lunetai_to_symvolaio_me_dwnh_paizei_kai_toy_ivan.2232020.html Λύνεται το συμβόλαιο με Δώνη, παίζει και του Ιβάν] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20130501061512/http://olapaok.gr/podosfairo/Proponitis/lunetai_to_symvolaio_me_dwnh_paizei_kai_toy_ivan.2232020.html |date=1 May 2013 }}</ref>

===APOEL===
On 11 October 2013, Donis signed a contract until the end of the 2013–14 season with the reigning [[Cyprus|Cypriot]] champions [[APOEL FC|APOEL]], replacing [[Paulo Sérgio Bento Brito|Paulo Sérgio]] who had been fired on 4 October 2013.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.apoelfc.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=10284&tt=graphic&lang=l1 |publisher=APOEL FC |script-title=el:Υπέγραψε ο Δώνης |date=11 October 2013 |access-date=11 October 2013 |language=el |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20131012032209/http://www.apoelfc.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=10284&tt=graphic&lang=l1 |archive-date=12 October 2013}}</ref> In his first season at APOEL, Donis achieved to win the [[Double (association football)|double]]. He won his first title with APOEL on 21 May 2014, when he led his team to a 2–0 victory over [[Ermis Aradippou]] in the [[2013–14 Cypriot Cup|Cypriot Cup]] final.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://apoelfc.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=11366&tt=graphic&lang=l1 |script-title=el:ΕΡΜΗΣ ΑΡΑΔΙΠΠΟΥ 0-2 ΑΠΟΕΛ |language=el |publisher=APOEL FC |date=21 May 2014 |access-date=21 May 2014 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140524135627/http://www.apoelfc.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=11366&tt=graphic&lang=l1 |archive-date=24 May 2014}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2014/05/21/cyprus/cup/apoel-nicosia/ermis-fc-aradippou/1668957/|title=APOEL vs. Ermis 2-0|publisher=Soccerway|date=21 May 2014|access-date=21 May 2014}}</ref> Ten days later, Donis won also the [[2013–14 Cypriot First Division|Cypriot First Division]] after APOEL's 1–0 away victory against [[AEL Limassol]] in the title deciding match and won his first league title in his managerial career.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.uefa.com/memberassociations/association=cyp/news/newsid=2102109.html|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140605050918/http://www.uefa.com/memberassociations/association=cyp/news/newsid=2102109.html|url-status=dead|archive-date=5 June 2014|title=Sheridan strike hands APOEL Cypriot title|publisher=UEFA|date=31 May 2014|access-date=31 May 2014}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2014/05/31/cyprus/1-division/ael-limassol/apoel-nicosia/1662145/|title=AEL vs. APOEL 0-1|publisher=Soccerway|date=31 May 2014|access-date=31 May 2014}}</ref>

Following a successful first season in the club, Donis signed a one-year contract extension with APOEL on 26 June 2014.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://sport-fm.com.cy/podosfairo/apoel/item/7330-αποελ-έβαλε-υπογραφή-ο-γιώργος-δώνης.html |title=Έβαλε υπογραφή ο Γιώργος Δώνης |publisher=sport-fm.com.cy |date=26 June 2014 |access-date=26 June 2014 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140629173328/http://www.sport-fm.com.cy/podosfairo/apoel/item/7330-%CE%B1%CF%80%CE%BF%CE%B5%CE%BB-%CE%AD%CE%B2%CE%B1%CE%BB%CE%B5-%CF%85%CF%80%CE%BF%CE%B3%CF%81%CE%B1%CF%86%CE%AE-%CE%BF-%CE%B3%CE%B9%CF%8E%CF%81%CE%B3%CE%BF%CF%82-%CE%B4%CF%8E%CE%BD%CE%B7%CF%82.html |archive-date=29 June 2014}}</ref> In August 2014, Donis led APOEL into the [[2014–15 UEFA Champions League group stage|group stages]] of the [[2014–15 UEFA Champions League]], after eliminating [[Helsingin Jalkapalloklubi|HJK Helsinki]] (4–2 on aggregate) in the third qualifying round and trashing [[AaB Fodbold|Aalborg BK]] 5–1 on aggregate in the play-off round of the competition.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.uefa.com/uefachampionsleague/news/0253-0d041cdd5245-69edaad9e878-1000--apoel-ease-past-aab-and-into-group-stage/|title=APOEL ease past AaB and into group stage|publisher=UEFA|date=26 August 2014|access-date=26 August 2014}}</ref> APOEL were drawn in Group F alongside [[FC Barcelona|Barcelona]], [[Paris Saint-Germain F.C.|Paris Saint-Germain]] and [[AFC Ajax|Ajax]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.uefa.com/uefachampionsleague/news/0253-0d041e79aad5-90d79a991439-1000--holders-real-madrid-draw-liverpool-in-group-stage/|title=Holders Real Madrid draw Liverpool in group stage|publisher=UEFA|date=28 August 2014|access-date=28 August 2014}}</ref> Donis led his team to some great performances in the group stage, but APOEL managed to collect only one point after drawing 1–1 with Ajax at home.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.uefa.com/uefachampionsleague/match/2014390--ajax-vs-apoel/|title=Ajax thrash APOEL to finish third in Group F|publisher=UEFA|date=10 December 2014|access-date=10 December 2014}}</ref> In their other five Group F matches, APOEL lost twice to Barcelona (0–4 at home, 0–1 away), lost twice to Paris Saint-Germain (0–1 at home, 0–1 away) and also lost to Ajax 0–4 away.

On 6 January 2015, APOEL and Donis parted company by mutual agreement after a poor run of performances and results, culminating in a 1–1 home draw against the last-placed [[Ayia Napa F.C.|Ayia Napa]].<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.apoelfc.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=12482&tt=graphic&lang=l1 |title=Κοινή συναινέσει λύση της συνεργασίας με Γιώργο Δώνη |publisher=APOEL FC |date=6 January 2015 |access-date=6 January 2015 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150226152443/http://www.apoelfc.com.cy/nqcontent.cfm?a_id=12482&tt=graphic&lang=l1 |archive-date=26 February 2015}}</ref>

===Al-Hilal===
On 25 February 2015, he was appointed as the new manager of [[Al-Hilal FC|Al-Hilal]] in Saudi Arabia, signing a contract until the end of the season. He helped Al-Hilal to qualify in the semi-final of the [[2015 AFC Champions League]]. On 6 June, Donis won the first title with Al-Hilal after defeating [[Al Nassr FC|Al-Nassr]] in the final of the [[2015 King Cup of Champions]].

===Sharjah===
On 28 July 2016, he was appointed as the new manager of UAE club [[Sharjah FC|Sharjah]], signing a contract until the summer of 2018.

===Second spell in APOEL===
On 28 July 2017, Donis signed a contract until the end of the 2017–18 season with the reigning [[Cyprus|Cypriot]] champions [[APOEL FC|APOEL]], replacing [[Mario Been]], who had been sacked by APOEL following a 1–0 away European defeat to [[FC Viitorul Constanta|Viitorul Constanta]].<ref>[https://www.vi.nl/nieuws/bliksemontslag-been-bij-apoel-nicosia Bliksemontslag Been bij APOEL Nicosia] - Voetbal International {{in lang|nl}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.sport24.gr/football/Cyprus/o-dwnhs-th-stigmh-twn-ypografwn-ston-apoel.4784397.html |title=Ο Δώνης τη στιγμή των υπογραφών στον ΑΠΟΕΛ |access-date=24 March 2018 |archive-date=25 March 2018 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180325045042/http://www.sport24.gr/football/Cyprus/o-dwnhs-th-stigmh-twn-ypografwn-ston-apoel.4784397.html |url-status=dead }}</ref> On 23 March 2018, APOEL sacked Donis, and replaced him with 40-year-old Portuguese manager [[Bruno Baltazar]]. The last straw was APOEL's recent 4–2 away defeat against [[Apollon Limassol]], which saw APOEL fall out of first place in the Cypriot First Division. Expectations had become quite high at APOEL in recent years. The Nicosia giants have won the [[Cypriot First Division]] the last five seasons, and seven of the last nine campaigns. With that domestic run now in jeopardy, APOEL made the move to replace Donis with the Portuguese coach.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.sport-fm.gr/article/podosfairo/teleiwnei-apo-ton-apoel-o-dwnis/3508337|title=Τελειώνει από τον ΑΠΟΕΛ ο Δώνης|website=sport-fm.gr}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.alphanews.live/sports/parelthon-kai-episima-o-donis-apo-ton-apoel/|title=Παρελθόν και επίσημα ο Δώνης από τον ΑΠΟΕΛ|date=22 March 2018}}</ref>

===Panathinaikos===
Donis was appointed on 3 July 2018 as the new manager of his former club as a player, [[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]], signing a three-year contract.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.sdna.gr/podosfairo/superleague/article/485360/episimo-donis-trietias-ston-panathinaiko|title=Επίσημο: Δώνης τριετίας στον Παναθηναϊκό!|date=3 July 2018|website=SDNA}}</ref> On 19 July 2020, after the end of the Super League play-offs, he left the club by mutual consent, mainly as a result of his strenuous relationship with the [[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]] board and chairman [[Giannis Alafouzos]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.alphanews.live/sports/apohorei-apo-ton-panathinaiko-o-donis-sto-telos-ti-sezon |title=Αποχωρεί από τον Παναθηναϊκό ο Δώνης στο τέλος τη σεζόν |website=alphanews.live |language=Greek |date=30 May 2020 }}</ref>

=== Μaccabi Tel Aviv ===
Donis signed a contract with [[Maccabi Tel Aviv]]. He led the team to the Play Offs of the [[2020–21 UEFA Champions League|UEFA Champions League]], where he was eliminated by [[FC Red Bull Salzburg|Red Bull Salzburg]]; in the [[2020–21 UEFA Europa League|UEFA Europa League]], he managed to lead the team to the round of 32. He was dismissed on 22 December 2020, with the team in fifth place in the league.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-12/24/c_139614805.htm |title=Israeli champion Maccabi Tel Aviv fire Greek head coach Donis |website=Xinhuanet |date=24 December 2020 |access-date=23 March 2021 |archive-date=14 April 2021 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210414180017/http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-12/24/c_139614805.htm |url-status=dead }}</ref>

=== Al-Wehda ===
In March 2021, he became the manager of Saudi club [[Al Wehda FC|Al-Wehda]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.metrosport.gr/ekleise-stin-al-oyachnta-o-giorgos-donis-362315 |title=Έκλεισε στην Αλ Ουάχντα ο Γιώργος Δώνης |website=metrosport.gr |language=Greek |date=22 March 2021 }}</ref>

=== Al Fateh ===
On 16 January 2022, Donis was appointed as the manager of Saudi club [[Al Fateh SC|Al Fateh]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://arriyadiyah.com/755745/بعد-«ذهب»-و«هبوط»..-دونيس-يعود-مدربا-للفتح|title=بعد "ذهب" و"هبوط".. دونيس يعود مدربا للفتح|website=arriyadiyah.com}}</ref>

=== Al-Wehda (return)===
On 11 July 2023, Donis returned to manage Al-Wehda for the second time.<ref>{{cite web |title=نادي الوحدة يعلن التعاقد مع المدرب اليوناني دونيس |work=جريدة الرياض |url=https://www.alriyadh.com/2022009}}</ref>

=== Al-Khaleej ===
On 11 July 2024, Donis was appointed as manager of [[Al-Khaleej FC|Al-Khaleej]].<ref>{{cite web |title=جيورجوس دونيس مع الخليج .. تجربة رابعة في دوري روشن السعودي |date=12 July 2024 |url=https://www.alyaum.com/article/6540124}}</ref>

=== Saudi Arabia national team ===
On 23 April 2026, Donis was appointed as the head coach of the [[Saudi Arabia national football team|Saudi Arabia national team]] ahead of their participation in the [[2026 FIFA World Cup]], signing a contract until July 2027.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://dailysports.net/news/official-saudi-arabia-appoints-renowned-coach-to-lead-them-at-the-world-cup/ |title=Official: Saudi Arabia appoints renowned coach to lead them at the World Cup |publisher=Dailysports |date=23 April 2026 }}</ref>

==Managerial statistics==
{{updated|match played 5 June 2026}}

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center;"
|-
!rowspan="2" width="115"|Team
!rowspan="2" width="30"|Nation
!rowspan="2" width="120"|From
!rowspan="2" width="120"|To
!colspan="5" width="120"|Record
|-
!G
!W
!D
!L
!Win %
|-
|align=center|[[Ilisiakos F.C.|Ilisiakos]]
|{{flagicon|GRE}}
|align=center|1 July 2002
|align=center|30 June 2004
{{WDL|47|29|11|7|decimals=1}}
|-
|align=center|[[Athlitiki Enosi Larissa F.C.|AEL]]
|{{flagicon|GRE}}
|align=center|1 July 2004
|align=center|24 April 2008
{{WDL|110|39|32|39|decimals=1}}
|-
|align=center|[[AEK Athens F.C.|AEK Athens]]
|{{flagicon|GRE}}
|align=center|14 May 2008
|align=center|15 November 2008
{{WDL|13|4|7|2|decimals=1}}
|-
|align=center|[[Atromitos F.C.|Atromitos]]
|{{flagicon|GRE}}
|align=center|1 July 2009
|align=center|30 May 2012
{{WDL|111|41|37|33|decimals=1}}
|-
|align=center|[[PAOK FC|PAOK]]
|{{flagicon|GRE}}
|align=center|1 June 2012
|align=center|29 April 2013
{{WDL|42|26|9|7|decimals=1}}
|-
|align=center|[[APOEL FC|APOEL]]
|{{flagicon|CYP}}
|align=center|11 October 2013
|align=center|6 January 2015
{{WDL|61|35|14|12|decimals=1}}
|-
|align=center|[[Al-Hilal FC|Al-Hilal]]
|{{flagicon|KSA}}
|align=center|4 March 2015
|align=center|18 May 2016
{{WDL|66|45|11|10|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Sharjah FC|Sharjah]]
|{{flagicon|UAE}}
|28 July 2016
|1 January 2017
{{WDL|13|4|2|7|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[APOEL FC|APOEL]]
|{{flagicon|CYP}}
|28 July 2017
|23 March 2018
{{WDL|41|25|8|8|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Panathinaikos F.C.|Panathinaikos]]
|{{flagicon|GRE}}
|3 July 2018
|19 July 2020
{{WDL|77|33|22|22|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C.|Maccabi Tel Aviv]]
|{{Flagicon|ISR}}
|20 July 2020
|21 December 2020
{{WDL|25|14|7|4|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Al Wehda FC|Al Wehda]]
|{{flagicon|KSA}}
|23 March 2021
|31 May 2021
{{WDL|6|1|3|2|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Al Fateh SC|Al Fateh]]
|{{flagicon|KSA}}
|16 January 2022
|31 May 2023
{{WDL|46|18|8|20|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Al Wehda FC|Al-Wehda]]
|{{flagicon|KSA}}
|11 July 2023
|30 June 2024
{{WDL|37|11|6|20|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Al-Khaleej FC|Al-Khaleej]]
|{{flagicon|KSA}}
|11 July 2024
|23 April 2026
{{WDL|63|20|13|30|decimals=1}}
|-
|[[Saudi Arabia national football team|Saudi Arabia]]
|{{flagicon|KSA}}
|23 April 2026
|''present''
{{WDL|2|1|0|1|decimals=1}}
|-
! colspan="4" |Total
{{WDLtot|762|346|190|226|decimals=1}}
|}

==Honours==

===Player===

;'''Panathinaikos'''
*[[Super League Greece|Alpha Ethniki]]: [[1994–95 Alpha Ethniki|1994–95]], [[1995–96 Alpha Ethniki|1995–96]]
*[[Greek Football Cup|Greek Cup]]: [[1992–93 Greek Cup|1992–93]], [[1993–94 Greek Cup|1993–94]], [[1994–95 Greek Cup|1994–95]]
*[[Greek Super Cup]]: [[1993 Greek Super Cup|1993]], [[1994 Greek Super Cup|1994]]

===Manager===

;'''Ilisiakos'''
*[[Gamma Ethniki]]: 2003–04
*[[Delta Ethniki]]: 2002–03

;'''AEL'''
*[[Greek Football Cup|Greek Cup]]: [[2006–07 Greek Cup|2006–07]]
*[[Football League (Greece)|Greek Second Division]]: 2004–05

;'''Atromitos'''
*[[Greek Football Cup|Greek Cup]]: Runner-up [[2010–11 Greek Cup|2010–11]], [[2011–12 Greek Cup|2011–12]]

;'''APOEL'''
*[[Cypriot First Division|Cypriot League]]: [[2013–14 Cypriot First Division|2013–14]]
*[[Cypriot Cup]]: [[2013–14 Cypriot Cup|2013–14]]

;'''Al-Hilal'''
*[[King Cup of Champions]]: [[2015 King Cup of Champions|2015]]
*[[Saudi Super Cup]]: [[2015 Saudi Super Cup|2015]]
*[[Saudi Crown Prince Cup]]: [[2015–16 Saudi Crown Prince Cup|2015–16]]

;'''Maccabi Tel Aviv'''
*[[Toto Cup Al]]: [[2020–21 Toto Cup Al|2020–21]]

===Individual===
*Top Scorer of [[Greek Football Cup|Greek Cup]]: [[1994–95 Greek Football Cup|1994–95]] (11 goals)
*[[Greek football PSAP awards|Best Manager in Greece]]: [[2011–12 Super League Greece|2011–12]] (shared)

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*{{Sports links}}

{{Current managers of AFC national teams}}
{{Saudi Arabia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
{{Navboxes
|title = Awards
|bg = Gold
|fg = Black
|bordercolor = 
|list1 =
{{Greek Cup top scorers}}
{{Super League Greece Greek footballer of the year}}
{{Super League Greece manager of the year}}
}}
{{Navboxes
|title= Managerial positions
|list1=
{{Athlitiki Enosi Larissa F.C. managers}}
{{AEK Athens F.C. managers}}
{{Atromitos F.C. managers}}
{{PAOK F.C. managers}}
{{APOEL FC managers}}
{{Al-Hilal FC managers}}
{{Sharjah FC managers}}
{{Panathinaikos F.C. managers}}
{{Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C. managers}}
{{Al-Fateh SC managers}}
{{Al-Wehda Club managers}}
{{Saudi Arabia national football team managers}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Donis, Georgios}}
[[Category:1969 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:German men's footballers]]
[[Category:Greek men's footballers]]
[[Category:PAS Giannina F.C. players]]
[[Category:Panathinaikos F.C. players]]
[[Category:Blackburn Rovers F.C. players]]
[[Category:AEK Athens F.C. players]]
[[Category:Sheffield United F.C. players]]
[[Category:Huddersfield Town A.F.C. players]]
[[Category:Super League Greece players]]
[[Category:Premier League players]]
[[Category:English Football League players]]
[[Category:Footballers from Frankfurt]]
[[Category:Greece men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Greek football managers]]
[[Category:Athlitiki Enosi Larissa F.C. managers]]
[[Category:AEK Athens F.C. managers]]
[[Category:Atromitos F.C. managers]]
[[Category:PAOK FC managers]]
[[Category:APOEL FC managers]]
[[Category:Panathinaikos F.C. managers]]
[[Category:Greek expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Super League Greece managers]]
[[Category:Al Hilal SFC managers]]
[[Category:Sharjah FC managers]]
[[Category:UAE Pro League managers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in England]]
[[Category:Greek expatriate sportspeople in England]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in Saudi Arabia]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in the United Arab Emirates]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in Cyprus]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in Israel]]
[[Category:Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C. managers]]
[[Category:Al Wehda FC managers]]
[[Category:Al Fateh SC managers]]
[[Category:Al-Khaleej FC managers]]
[[Category:Saudi Arabia national football team managers]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Mediterranean Games gold medalists for Greece]]
[[Category:Mediterranean Games medalists in football]]
[[Category:Competitors at the 1991 Mediterranean Games]]
[[Category:Saudi Pro League managers]]
[[Category:German people of Greek descent]]
[[Category:Sportspeople of Greek descent]]
[[Category:Greek expatriate sportspeople in Saudi Arabia]]
[[Category:Greek expatriate sportspeople in the United Arab Emirates]]
[[Category:Greek expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus]]
[[Category:Greek expatriate sportspeople in Israel]]
[[Category:Greek expatriate football managers]]
[[Category:20th-century Greek sportsmen]]
[[Category:20th-century German sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup managers]]