{{short description|Moroccan football manager (born 1981)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2026}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Mohamed Ouahbi
| image = Mohamed Ouahbi against Paraguay 3.jpg
| image_size = 
| caption = 
| fullname = Mohamed Ouahbi
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1976|9|7|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Schaerbeek]], Belgium
| height = 
| position = 
| years11 = 
| clubs11 = 
| caps11 = 
| goals11 = 
| years12 = 
| clubs12 = 
| caps12 = 
| goals12 = 
| nationalyears1 = 
| nationalteam1 = 
| nationalcaps1 = 
| nationalgoals1 = 
| club-update = 
| nationalteam-update = 
| manageryears1 = 1997–2003
| managerclubs1 = [[Maccabi Brussels]] (youth)
| manageryears2 = 2003–2014
| managerclubs2 = [[R.S.C. Anderlecht|Anderlecht]] (youth)
| manageryears3 = 2014–2015
| managerclubs3 = [[R.S.C. Anderlecht|Anderlecht]] U21
| manageryears4 = 2015–2016
| managerclubs4 = [[R.S.C. Anderlecht|Anderlecht]] (assistant)
| manageryears5 = 2016–2021
| managerclubs5 = [[R.S.C. Anderlecht|Anderlecht]] (youth)
| manageryears6 = 2022–2025
| managerclubs6 = [[Morocco national under-20 football team|Morocco U20]]
| medaltemplates = {{Medal|Sport|Men's [[Association football|football]]}}
{{Medal|Country|{{fb|MAR}}}} <small>(as manager)</small>
{{MedalCompetition|[[FIFA U-20 World Cup]]}}
{{Medal|W|[[2025 FIFA U-20 World Cup|2025 Chile]]}}
{{Medal|Comp|[[U-20 Africa Cup of Nations]]}}
{{Medal|RU|[[2025 U-20 Africa Cup of Nations|2025 Egypt]]|}}
| manageryears7 = 2025–2026
| managerclubs7 = [[Morocco national under-23 football team|Morocco U23]]
| manageryears8 = 2026–
| managerclubs8 = [[Morocco national football team|Morocco]]
}}

'''Mohamed Ouahbi''' ([[Berber languages]]:ⵎⵓⵀⴰⵎⴻⴷ ⵓⴰⵀⴱⵉ, {{langx|ar|محمد وهبي}}; born 7 September 1976) is a Moroccan-Belgian from [[Nador]] professional [[association football|football]] [[manager (association football)|manager]] who manages the [[Morocco national football team|Morocco national team]].

== Biography ==

=== Early life and education ===

Mohamed Ouahbi was born in the "Cité des Ânes" district of [[Schaerbeek]], in the [[Brussels-Capital Region]], into a [[Riffians|Moroccan-Riffian]] family from [[Nador]]. He grew up and attended school in [[Brussels]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=محمد وهبي.. المدرّس الذي علّم الحلم كيف يصبح إنجازا |url=https://sport.al3omk.com/92037.html |access-date=21 October 2025 |website=sport.al3omk.com |language=ar}}</ref>

At just ten years old, Ouahbi developed a passion for [[association football|football]] during the [[1986 FIFA World Cup]]. The Ouahbi family supported [[Belgium national football team|Belgium]], but especially rooted for the [[Atlas Lions]]<ref group="note">"Atlas Lions" is the nickname of the [[Morocco national football team]].</ref> who reached the round of 16. Later, Ouahbi began studying to become an educator in Schaerbeek, hoping one day to combine his profession with his passion for football.<ref name=":1">{{cite web |language=fr |title=PORTRAIT. Mohamed Ouahbi, symbole du renouveau de la formation anderlechtoise |url=http://www.bxlbondyblog.be/mohamed-ouahbi-symbole-du-renouveau-de-la-formation-anderlechtoise/ |website=www.bxlbondyblog.be |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>

== Coaching career ==

=== Beginnings at Maccabi Brussels ===

Ouahbi began his coaching career at the age of 21.<ref group="note">Mohamed Ouahbi speaking about his early coaching years [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UXcOsKP7Vcc: interview with CEFF TV (10:02)]</ref> Starting in 1997, he joined Maccabi Brussels where he coached youth teams.<ref name=":2">{{cite web |language=fr |first=Omar |last=Nabile |title=Mondial U20: qui est Mohamed Ouahbi, le faiseur de rêves marocain? |url=https://sport.le360.ma/football/lions-atlas/mondial-u20-qui-est-mohamed-ouahbi-le-faiseur-de-reves-marocain_462QLNTTPRFMHH6NVBF4GCVDF4/ |website=Le 360 Sport Français |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>
He spent six seasons there, designing age-appropriate training sessions and gaining early structured experience in player observation, planning, and evaluation.<ref name=":1" />

Working in a socially diverse environment with players of various backgrounds, he emphasized inclusion and co-education through sport. This period allowed him to develop leadership and communication skills, set aside stereotypes, and prioritize learning and education over strict competition.<ref name=":1" />

Although sporting results were secondary to the club's educational goals, this stage became a foundation for Ouahbi's coaching philosophy, shaping his pedagogical approach and preparing him for roles in higher-level youth academies, leading to his later work with professional clubs in Brussels.<ref name=":1" />

=== Anderlecht===
In 2003, Ouahbi joined [[R.S.C. Anderlecht|Anderlecht]],<ref name=":0">{{cite web |language=nl |title=Mohamed Ouahbi verlaat RSCA {{!}} RSC Anderlecht |url=https://www.rsca.be/nl/MoOuahbi |website=www.rsca.be |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref> beginning with the under-nine team, which included players such as [[Charly Musonda (footballer, born 1996)|Charly Musonda Jr.]] and [[Adnan Januzaj]]. There, he reunited with his friend [[Yannick Ferrera]], whom he had met at Maccabi Brussels, and discovered the facilities of one of Belgium's elite clubs.<ref name=":1" />
He gradually advanced through the youth ranks, coaching teams from U10 to U21.<ref>{{cite web |language=fr |title=Mohammed Ouahbi: le pilote des Lionceaux U20 qui a mené le rêve marocain à la scène mondiale |url=https://snrtnews.com/fr/article/mohammed-ouahbi-le-pilote-des-lionceaux-u20-qui-a-mene-le-reve-marocain-a-la-scene-mondiale |website=SNRTnews |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>

During the [[2014–15 UEFA Youth League]] season, he led Anderlecht to the semi-finals, where they were defeated 3–1 by [[FC Shakhtar Donetsk|Shakhtar Donetsk]] in [[Nyon]].<ref>{{cite web |language=en |author=UEFA.com |title=Anderlecht vs Shakhtar {{!}} UEFA Youth League 2014/15 |url=https://www.uefa.com/uefayouthleague/match/2016402--anderlecht-vs-shakhtar/ |website=UEFA.com |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>

At the start of the [[2015–16 Belgian Pro League]] season, Ouahbi became assistant coach of the first team under [[Besnik Hasi]].<ref name=":0" /> Anderlecht finished second in the [[Belgian Pro League]] behind [[Club Brugge KV|Club Brugge]], qualifying for the [[2016–17 UEFA Champions League]] qualifiers. In the [[UEFA Europa League]], the club advanced to the round of 16, defeating [[Olympiacos F.C.|Olympiacos]], before being eliminated by Shakhtar Donetsk.<ref>{{cite web |language=en |title=Anderlecht 1-0 Olympiacos (Feb 18, 2016) Final Score |url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/439224/olympiacos-anderlecht |website=ESPN |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>
After Besnik Hasi's dismissal in May 2016,<ref>{{cite web |language=fr |title=Anderlecht officialise le départ de Besnik Hasi - RTBF Actus |url=https://www.rtbf.be/article/anderlecht-officialise-le-depart-de-besnik-hasi-9309027 |website=RTBF |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref> Ouahbi returned to youth coaching duties.

In 2017–18, as U17 coach, he won the Belgian U17 championship, qualifying the team for the UEFA Youth League.<ref name=":5">{{cite web |language=fr |title=Les U17 sont champions et en Youth League! {{!}} RSC Anderlecht |url=https://www.rsca.be/fr/news/les-u17-sont-champions-et-en-youth-league |website=www.rsca.be |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>
He later obtained his [[UEFA Pro Licence]] in 2018.<ref>{{cite web |language=nl |title=UEFA PRO Licence voor paars-wit trainerskwartet! {{!}} RSC Anderlecht |url=https://www.rsca.be/nl/news/uefa-pro-licence-voor-paars-wit-trainerskwartet |website=www.rsca.be |date=14 May 2018 |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>

He continued coaching Anderlecht youth sides until 2021, when he announced his departure after 17 years at the club.<ref>{{cite web |language=nl-NL |title=OFFICIEEL: Anderlecht neemt na 17 jaar afscheid van Ouahbi: "Een icoon" |url=https://www.voetbalprimeur.be/nieuws/982018/officieel-anderlecht-neemt-na-17-jaar-afscheid-van-ouahbi-een-icoon.html |website=VoetbalPrimeur.be |date=26 May 2021 |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>

=== Morocco U20 ===

In March 2022, Ouahbi was appointed by [[Fouzi Lekjaa]], president of the [[Royal Moroccan Football Federation]], as the new head coach of the [[Morocco national under-20 football team]], assisted by [[Jamel Aït Ben Idir]], succeeding [[Zakaria Aboub]].

He led the team through several regional tournaments, including the [[2022 Arab Cup U-20]], the [[UNAF U-20 Tournament]] editions of 2022, 2023, and [[2024 UNAF U-20 Tournament|2024]] — the latter of which Morocco won, qualifying for the [[2025 U-20 Africa Cup of Nations]].<ref name=":4">{{cite web |language=en-GB |title=Morocco and Egypt secure spots in TotalEnergies U-20 Africa Cup of Nations |url=https://www.cafonline.com/caf-u-20-africa-cup-of-nations/news/morocco-and-egypt-secure-spots-in-totalenergies-u-20-africa-cup-of-nations/ |website=cafonline.com |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>

At the 2025 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations in [[Egypt]], Morocco topped their group, defeated the hosts in the semi-final, and finished runners-up after losing 1–0 to [[South Africa national under-20 football team|South Africa]] in the final.<ref name=":3">{{cite web |language=en-GB |title=South Africa crowned U-20 AFCON champions after historic win over Morocco |url=https://www.cafonline.com/caf-u-20-africa-cup-of-nations/news/south-africa-crowned-u-20-afcon-champions-after-historic-win-over-morocco/ |website=cafonline.com |access-date=16 October 2025}}</ref>

Later that year, he led Morocco at the [[2025 FIFA U-20 World Cup]] in [[Chile]]. Morocco defeated the [[United States men's national under-20 soccer team|United States]] in the quarter-finals (3–1), overcame [[France national under-20 football team|France]] on penalties in the semi-finals, and won the final 2–0 against [[Argentina national under-20 football team|Argentina]], earning Morocco their first-ever U20 World Cup title.<ref>{{cite web |language=fr |title=(Images) Coupe du monde U20 : le Maroc, champion du monde |url=https://www.lopinion.ma/Images-Coupe-du-monde-U20-le-Maroc-champion-du-monde_a73000.html |website=L'Opinion Maroc |access-date=20 October 2025}}</ref>

In October 2025, Ouahbi was nominated for the [[CAF Awards|CAF Coach of the Year Award]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=Nominees in the Men's categories for CAF Awards 2025 announced |url=https://www.cafonline.com/news/nominees-in-the-men-s-categories-for-caf-awards-2025-announced/ |access-date=22 October 2025 |website=Nominees in the Men's categories for CAF Awards 2025 announced |language=en-GB}}</ref>

=== Morocco U23 ===

In December 2025, Ouahbi became the [[Morocco national under-23 football team|Morocco U23]] coach.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Tolaimate |first=Chadi |date=8 December 2025 |title=Mohamed Ouahbi to Coach Morocco U-23 National Team |url=https://www.moroccoworldnews.com/2025/12/271049/mohamed-ouahbi-to-coach-morocco-u-23-national-team/ |access-date=16 December 2025 |website=Morocco World News |language=en-US}}</ref>

=== Morocco ===

On 5 March 2026, Ouahbi was appointed as new head coach of [[Morocco national football team|Morocco national team]], replacing [[Walid Regragui]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/c62dnepz5g7o |title=Regragui departs as Morocco appoint Ouahbi as new coach |publisher=BBC Sport |date=5 March 2026 }}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |last=Gamra |first=Abderrahim Kabbour, Farah Ben |date=5 March 2026 |title=Official: Mohamed Ouahbi Takes Over as New Coach for Morocco |url=https://www.moroccoworldnews.com/2026/03/281697/official-mohamed-ouahbi-takes-over-as-new-coach-for-morocco/ |access-date=5 March 2026 |website=Morocco World News |language=en-US}}</ref>

==Honours==
'''Morocco U20'''
*[[FIFA U-20 World Cup]]: [[2025 FIFA U-20 World Cup|2025]]<ref>{{Cite web |title=Morocco U20 crowned World Champion |url=https://www.cnom.org.ma/en/morocco-u20-crowned-world-champion |access-date=6 December 2025 |website=www.cnom.org.ma |language=en}}</ref>

== Notes ==
{{reflist|group=note}}

== References ==
{{reflist}}

{{Current managers of CAF national teams}}
{{Morocco squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
{{Morocco national football team managers}}
{{FIFA U-20 World Cup winning managers}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Ouahbi, Mohamed}}
[[Category:1976 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:People from Schaerbeek]]
[[Category:Sportspeople from Brussels]]
[[Category:Belgian people of Moroccan descent]]
[[Category:Belgian football managers]]
[[Category:Moroccan football managers]]
[[Category:RSC Anderlecht non-playing staff]]
[[Category:Morocco national football team managers]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup managers]]