{{Short description|Football manager (born 1971)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2026}}
{{Use British English|date=June 2019}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Sabri Lamouchi
| image = Sabri Lamouchi - Portrait 2022.jpg
| caption = Lamouchi in 2022
| full_name = Sabri Lamouchi<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.verif.com/dirigeants/Sabri-LAMOUCHI-J27554617/ |title=Sabri Lamouchi |website=Verif.com |access-date=9 March 2025 |language=fr}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|1971|11|9|df=y}}<ref name="lequipe">{{cite news |url=https://www.lequipe.fr/Football/FootballFicheJoueur2756.html |title=Sabri Lamouchi |newspaper=L'Équipe |location=Paris |access-date=20 August 2022 |language=fr}}</ref>
| birth_place = [[Lyon]], France
| height = 1.75 m<ref name="lequipe"/>
| position = [[Midfielder]]<ref name="lequipe"/>
| currentclub = [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]] (manager)
| youthyears1 = 1977–1982
| youthyears2 = 1982–1989
| youthclubs1 = [[AS Lyon-Duchère]]
| youthclubs2 = Cascol Oullins
| years1 = 1990–1994
| years2 = 1994–1998
| years3 = 1998–2000
| years4 = 2000–2003
| years5 = 2003–2005
| years6 = 2004–2005
| years7 = 2005–2006
| years8 = 2006–2007
| years9 = 2007–2008
| years10 = 2009
| clubs1 = [[Olympique Alès|Alès]]
| clubs2 = [[AJ Auxerre|Auxerre]]
| clubs3 = [[AS Monaco FC|Monaco]]
| clubs4 = [[Parma AC|Parma]]
| clubs5 = [[Inter Milan]]
| clubs6 = → [[Genoa CFC|Genoa]] (loan)
| clubs7 = [[Olympique de Marseille|Marseille]]
| clubs8 = [[Al-Rayyan SC|Al-Rayyan]]
| clubs9 = [[Umm Salal SC|Umm-Salal]]
| clubs10 = [[Al Kharaitiyat SC|Al-Kharitiyath]]
| caps1 = 106
| caps2 = 129
| caps3 = 56
| caps4 = 90
| caps5 = 16
| caps6 = 20
| caps7 = 36
| caps8 = 7
| caps9 = 10
| goals1 = 26
| goals2 = 19
| goals3 = 4
| goals4 = 7
| goals5 = 0
| goals6 = 1
| goals7 = 5
| goals8 = 6
| goals9 = 1
| totalcaps = 470
| totalgoals = 79
| nationalyears1 = 1996–2001
| nationalteam1 = [[France national football team|France]]
| nationalcaps1 = 12
| nationalgoals1 = 1
| manageryears1 = 2012–2014
| managerclubs1 = [[Ivory Coast national football team|Ivory Coast]]
| manageryears2 = 2014–2017
| managerclubs2 = [[El Jaish SC|El Jaish]]
| manageryears3 = 2017–2018
| managerclubs3 = [[Stade Rennais F.C.|Rennes]]
| manageryears4 = 2019–2020
| managerclubs4 = [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]]
| manageryears5 = 2020–2021
| managerclubs5 = [[Al-Duhail SC|Al-Duhail]]
| manageryears6 = 2023
| managerclubs6 = [[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]]
| manageryears7 = 2024–2025
| managerclubs7 = [[Al-Riyadh SC|Al-Riyadh]]
| manageryears8 = 2025
| managerclubs8 = [[Diriyah Club|Al-Diriyah]]
| manageryears9 = 2026–
| managerclubs9 = [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]]
}}
'''Sabri Lamouchi''' (born 9 November 1971) is a French professional [[Manager (association football)|football manager]] and former player who is the head coach of the [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia national team]].

During his playing career as a [[midfielder]], Lamouchi played for clubs in France, Italy, and Qatar. He appeared 12 times for the [[France national football team|France national team]], scoring once.

==Early life==
Lamouchi was born in [[Lyon]], France,<ref name="lequipe"/> to Tunisian parents, and was raised in France. He holds French and Tunisian citizenship.<ref>{{cite news |last1=Fisher |first1=Ben |title=Lamouchi relishing Nottingham Forest baptism in 'worst league in the world' |url=https://www.theguardian.com/football/2019/aug/02/sabri-lamouchi-nottingham-forest-manager-worst-league-world-premier-league |access-date=9 November 2019 |work=The Guardian |date=2 August 2019 |location=London}}</ref>

==Club career==
Lamouchi started his professional career with [[Olympique Alès|Alès]] and then moved to [[AJ Auxerre|Auxerre]] for four years. He then went on to join [[AS Monaco FC|Monaco]], who he helped to the [[Ligue 1]] title in 2000, before being snapped up by [[Parma AC|Parma]] of Italy. He later moved to [[Inter Milan]].{{citation needed|date=November 2019}}

Lamouchi had a spell at [[Genoa CFC|Genoa]] before joining [[Olympique de Marseille|Marseille]] on loan the following year. In January 2006, the loan deal was made a permanent move. He played for Marseille for six further months, until he announced that he was leaving the club on 18 September 2006, although his contract ran until June 2007.{{citation needed|date=November 2019}}

In 2006, Lamouchi moved to [[Al-Rayyan SC|Al-Rayyan]] in the [[Qatar Stars League]], where he scored a spectacular goal in his first match. The next season, he joined [[Umm Salal SC|Umm-Salal]].{{citation needed|date=November 2019}}

In January 2009, Lamouchi transferred to [[Al Kharaitiyat SC|Al-Kharitiyath]].{{citation needed|date=November 2019}}

==International career==
Sabri Lamouchi holds Tunisian and French nationalities by birth since he was born in France before 1994 to parents born in [[French protectorate of Tunisia]] before its independence.
Lamouchi was [[Cap (sport)#Association football|capped]] 12 times and scored one goal for the [[France national football team|France national team]]. He made his debut in 1996 and was a member of the French [[UEFA Euro 1996|European Championship]] squad the same year. He was in France's 28 men-preliminary squad for the [[1998 FIFA World Cup]] on home soil. However he was one of the six players axed by head coach [[Aimé Jacquet]] just before the tournament began. The team went on to win the tournament.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.thefreelibrary.com/FOOTBALL%3A+FRANCE+AXE+ANELKA%3B+Gunners+kid+out+of+this+world.-a060641068|title=FRANCE AXE ANELKA; Gunners kid out of this world.|publisher=thefreelibrary.com|date=24 May 1998 |access-date=7 November 2013}}</ref>

==Managerial career==
===Ivory Coast===
In May 2012, he became manager of the [[Ivory Coast national football team|Ivory Coast national team]], his first managerial position. The Elephants qualified for the [[2014 FIFA World Cup]], ranked 23rd at the time – highest ranked in Africa – and started their group play with a 2–1 victory over [[Japan national football team|Japan]]. That was followed by a 2–1 loss to group favourite [[Colombia national football team|Colombia]]. On his last game as Ivory Coast's manager, he and his team lost 2–1 against [[Greece national football team|Greece]] and they were eliminated from the FIFA World Cup. The team featured stars such as [[Yaya Touré]], [[Gervinho]], [[Wilfried Bony]] and [[Didier Drogba]]. Lamouchi resigned from the position following Les Elephants' exit from the competition.<ref>{{cite web|title=Ivory Coast coach Sabri Lamouchi steps down|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/28011550|publisher=BBC Sport|access-date=25 June 2014|date=25 June 2014}}</ref>

===Rennes===
On 8 November 2017, Lamouchi became the manager of French side [[Stade Rennais F.C.|Rennes]]. He led the team to a 5th place synonymous with [[2018–19 UEFA Europa League|Europa League]] qualification. On 3 December 2018 after a string of poor results, he was sacked from the club.<ref>{{cite news|title=Sabri Lamouchi mis à pied par Rennes |url=https://www.lequipe.fr/Football/Actualites/Sabri-lamouchi-mis-a-pied-par-rennes/964709|work=[[L'Équipe]]|date=3 December 2018|language=FR}}</ref>

===Nottingham Forest===
====2019–20 season====
On 28 June 2019, following the departure of [[Martin O'Neill]], it was announced that Lamouchi would become head coach of [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]] for the [[2019–20 EFL Championship|2019–20 season]].<ref>{{cite news |title=Sabri Lamouchi: Nottingham Forest appoint Frenchman 18 minutes after sacking Martin O'Neill |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/48800839 |access-date=9 November 2019 |date=28 June 2019}}</ref> He enjoyed a strong start to the season and won the league's Manager of the Month award for September 2019.<ref name=":0">{{cite web|url=https://www.efl.com/news/2019/october/september-manager-of-the-month-winners/|title=September Manager of the Month winners|website=EFL|date=11 October 2019|access-date=24 December 2019}}</ref> On 19 June 2020, Nottingham Forest announced that Lamouchi had signed an extension to his managerial contract.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Sabri Lamouchi: Nottingham Forest head coach signs contract extension|url=https://www.skysports.com/football/news/11727/12010674/sabri-lamouchi-nottingham-forest-head-coach-signs-contract-extension|access-date=1 August 2020|website=Sky Sports|language=en}}</ref> Forest were in the play-off positions for nearly the whole season, but missed out by finishing seventh on the final day of the season after being beaten at home 1–4 by [[Stoke City F.C.|Stoke City]].<ref>{{Cite news|date=22 July 2020|title=Nottingham Forest 1-4 Stoke: Forest lose play-off place to Swansea|language=en-gb|work=BBC Sport|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/53412704|access-date=1 August 2020}}</ref> Lamouchi had guided Forest to their highest league position since the [[2010–11 Nottingham Forest F.C. season|2010–11 season]], and also became the first Forest manager to complete a full season in over nine years.<ref>{{Cite news|last=Taylor|first=Paul|title=Forest will not sack Lamouchi – but there will be big changes this summer|url=https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/1959914/2020/07/30/forest-lamouchi-owners-safe/|access-date=1 August 2020|website=The Athletic}}</ref>

====2020–21 season====
Following Forest's disappointing end to the season, Lamouchi flew to Athens to meet with the Forest board, including Forest owner [[Evangelos Marinakis]], where it was decided that Lamouchi would remain as Forest's Head Coach. To improve on the shortcomings of the previous season, four new additions were made to Lamouchi's coaching staff, along with a change in transfer strategy that would place a greater focus on domestic signings.<ref>{{Cite news|last=Taylor|first=Paul|title=Changes on and off the pitch - Forest hope they have found the right balance|url=https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/2005507/2020/08/19/nottingham-forest-sabri-lamouchi-lyle-taylor-jack-colback-tyler-blackett/|access-date=27 August 2020|website=The Athletic}}</ref>

On 5 September 2020, Nottingham Forest were knocked out of the [[EFL Cup|League Cup]] in a 1–0 defeat to [[Barnsley F.C.|Barnsley]]. In a video call to the squad following that game, Marinakis described the result as a 'humiliation' to the football club that Forest would lose twice to a club that had barely survived relegation the previous season. It was clear that Marinakis' patience with Lamouchi was running out, and Marinakis angrily told [[Albert Adomah]] and [[João Carvalho]] that they could leave the club without consulting Lamouchi.<ref name=":1">{{Cite news|last1=Taylor|first1=Daniel|last2=Taylor|first2=Paul|title=How Sabri Lamouchi's Nottingham Forest reign came crashing down|url=https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/2094888/2020/10/06/nottingham-forest-sabri-lamouchi-evangelos-marinakis-sacked/|access-date=6 October 2020|website=The Athletic}}</ref>

On 6 October 2020, Lamouchi's contract was terminated and he was immediately replaced by [[Chris Hughton]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.theguardian.com/football/2020/oct/06/nottingham-forest-sack-sabri-lamouchi-as-manager-after-terrible-start-to-season|title=Nottingham Forest hire Chris Hughton following sacking of Sabri Lamouchi|website=The Guardian|date=6 October 2020|access-date=6 October 2020}}</ref> Forest had lost all five competitive games of the new season, and had failed to win in their last eleven games.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Matches - Nottingham Forest|url=https://www.nottinghamforest.co.uk/matches/fixtures/|access-date=6 October 2020|website=www.nottinghamforest.co.uk}}</ref>

===Al-Duhail===
In October 2020, Lamouchi was appointed manager of Qatari side [[Al-Duhail SC|Al-Duhail]].<ref>{{cite web |title=الدحيل يبدأ عهد لموشي |url=https://www.raya.com/2020/10/15/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AF%D8%AD%D9%8A%D9%84-%D9%8A%D8%A8%D8%AF%D8%A3-%D8%B9%D9%87%D8%AF-%D9%84%D9%85%D9%88%D8%B4%D9%8A/ |website=جريدة الراية |language=ar |date=14 October 2020}}</ref> On 9 August 2021, his contract was terminated by mutual consent.<ref>{{Cite news |date=9 August 2021 |title=Termination of the contract with Lamouchi by mutual consent |work=Al-Duhail |url=https://duhailsc.qa/en/football/news/18201-%D8%A5%D9%86%D9%87%D8%A7%D8%A1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%82%D8%AF-%D9%85%D8%B9-%D9%84%D9%85%D9%88%D8%B4%D9%8A-%D8%A8%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%B6%D9%8A.html |access-date=9 March 2022}}</ref>

===Cardiff City===
On 27 January 2023, Lamouchi returned to British football when he was appointed as manager of Welsh club [[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]].<ref>{{Cite news|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/64415848|title=Sabri Lamouchi: Cardiff City appoint third manager of season|work=BBC Sport |date=27 January 2023}}</ref> Despite successfully helping the team steer clear of relegation at the end of the 2022-23 season, on 16 May 2023, Cardiff City announced that Lamouchi would leave the club at the end of his contract.<ref>{{Cite web |date=17 May 2023 |title=Sabri Lamouchi leaves Cardiff City after talks with owner Vincent Tan fail |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/65611275 |access-date=2 June 2023 |website=BBC Sport}}</ref>

===Saudi Arabia===
On 12 July 2024, Lamouchi was appointed manager of [[Saudi Pro League]] club [[Al-Riyadh SC|Al-Riyadh]].<ref>{{cite web |title=مدرب الأفيال يقود كتيبة الرياض |url=https://arriyadiyah.com/844355}}</ref> He was sacked on 19 April 2025.

On 20 July 2025, Lamouchi was appointed as manager of Saudi First Division League club [[Diriyah Club|Al-Diriyah]].<ref>{{cite web |title=لموشي يقود الدرعية في "يلو" |url=https://arriyadiyah.com/870349}}</ref> He was sacked on 6 December 2025.<ref>{{cite web |title=الدرعية يقيل لموشي |url=https://arriyadiyah.com/879883/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AF%D8%B1%D8%B9%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D9%8A%D9%82%D9%8A%D9%84-%D9%84%D9%85%D9%88%D8%B4%D9%8A}}</ref>

=== Tunisia ===
On 14 January 2026, the [[Tunisian Football Federation]] announced an agreement with Lamouchi to coach the [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia national team]] on a contract extending until 31 July 2028.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Ibrahim |date=14 January 2026 |title=Sabri Lamouchi named new Tunisia head coach |url=https://en.africatopsports.com/2026/01/14/afcon-2025-sabri-lamouchi-named-new-tunisia-head-coach/ |access-date=14 January 2026 |language=en-US}}{{Dead link|date=June 2026}}</ref>

==Managerial statistics==
{{updated|match played 6 June 2026}}<ref name="SW" >{{cite web |title=Sabri Lamouchi |url=https://uk.soccerway.com/coaches/sabri-lamouchi/246065/|work=Soccerway |publisher=Perform Group |access-date=2 March 2020}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"			
|+ Managerial record by team and tenure	
|-
!rowspan="2"|Team
!rowspan="2"|From
!rowspan="2"|To
!colspan="7"|Record	
|-	
!{{Tooltip|G|Games managed}}
!{{Tooltip|W|Games won}}
!{{Tooltip|D|Games drawn}}
!{{Tooltip|L|Games lost}}
!{{Tooltip|Win %|Winning percentage}}			
|-
|align=left|[[Ivory Coast national football team|Ivory Coast]]
|align=left|28 May 2012
|align=left|25 June 2014
{{WDL|28|14|7|7}}	
|-
|align=left|[[El Jaish SC|El Jaish]]
|align=left|27 December 2014	
|align=left|1 July 2017
{{WDL|92|50|16|26}}
|-
|align=left|[[Stade Rennais F.C.|Rennes]]
|align=left|8 November 2017
|align=left|3 December 2018
{{WDL|50|19|13|18}}
|-
|align=left|[[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]]
|align=left|28 June 2019
|align=left|6 October 2020
{{WDL|55|20|16|19}}
|-
|align=left|[[Al-Duhail SC|Al-Duhail]]
|align=left|14 October 2020
|align=left|9 August 2021
{{WDL|37|21|5|11}}
|-
|align=left|[[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]]
|align=left|27 January 2023
|align=left|16 May 2023
{{WDL|18|6|2|10}}
|-
|align=left|[[Al-Riyadh SC|Al-Riyadh]]
|align=left|12 July 2024
|align=left|19 April 2025
{{WDL|30|10|7|13}}
|-
|align=left|[[Al-Diriyah Club|Al-Diriyah]]
|align=left|20 July 2025
|align=left|6 December 2025
{{WDL|10|6|3|1}}
|-
|align=left|[[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]]
|align=left|14 January 2026
|align=left|''present''
{{WDL|4|1|1|2}}
|-
!colspan="3"|Total
{{WDLtot|324|147|70|107}}	
|}

==Honours==
===Player===
'''Auxerre'''
*[[Ligue 1|Division 1]]: [[1995–96 French Division 1|1995–96]]<ref name="SW" />
*[[Coupe de France]]: [[1995–96 Coupe de France|1995–96]]<ref name="SW" />

'''Monaco'''
*Division 1: [[1999–2000 French Division 1|1999–2000]]<ref name="SW" />

'''Parma'''
*[[Coppa Italia]]: [[2001–02 Coppa Italia|2001–02]]<ref name="SW" />

'''Marseille'''
*[[UEFA Intertoto Cup]]: [[2005 UEFA Intertoto Cup|2005]]<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.uefa.com/competitions/IntertotoCup/FixturesResults/Round=2188/Match=81581/Report=LU.html |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20060531214209/http://www.uefa.com/competitions/IntertotoCup/FixturesResults/Round=2188/Match=81581/Report=LU.html |url-status=dead |archive-date=31 May 2006 |title=Marseille 5-1 Deportivo (Aggregate: 5 - 3)|publisher=[[UEFA]] |access-date=14 June 2020}}</ref>

===Manager===
'''El Jaish'''
*[[Qatar Crown Prince Cup]]: [[2016 Qatar Cup|2016]]<ref name="SW" />

'''Individual'''
*[[EFL Championship Manager of the Month]]: September 2019,<ref name=":0" /> January 2020<ref>{{Cite web|title=Sky Bet Championship: Manager and Player of the Month January winners|url=https://www.efl.com/news/2020/february/sky-bet-championship-manager-and-player-of-the-month-january-winners/|access-date=1 August 2020|website=www.efl.com|language=en-gb}}</ref>

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
{{commons category}}
*{{Official website|https://web.archive.org/web/20090415081248/http://sabrilamouchi.sports.fr/fr/index.asp}} (archived)
* {{FFF player}}
* {{FIFA player}}
{{Current managers of CAF national teams}}
{{Navboxes
|title = Managerial positions
|list1 = 
{{Côte d'Ivoire national football team managers}}
{{Stade Rennais F.C. managers}}
{{Nottingham Forest F.C. managers}}
{{Al-Duhail SC managers}}
{{Cardiff City F.C. managers}}
{{Tunisia national football team managers}}
}}
{{Navboxes
| title = International tournaments
| list1 =
{{France squad UEFA Euro 1996}}
{{Ivory Coast squad 2013 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{Ivory Coast squad 2014 FIFA World Cup}}
{{Tunisia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Lamouchi, Sabri}}
[[Category:1971 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Lyon]]
[[Category:French men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Olympique Alès players]]
[[Category:AJ Auxerre players]]
[[Category:AS Monaco FC players]]
[[Category:Parma Calcio 1913 players]]
[[Category:Inter Milan players]]
[[Category:Genoa CFC players]]
[[Category:Olympique de Marseille players]]
[[Category:Al-Rayyan SC players]]
[[Category:Umm Salal SC players]]
[[Category:Al Kharaitiyat SC players]]
[[Category:Ligue 1 players]]
[[Category:Ligue 2 players]]
[[Category:Serie A players]]
[[Category:Serie B players]]
[[Category:Qatar Stars League players]]
[[Category:France men's international footballers]]
[[Category:UEFA Euro 1996 players]]
[[Category:French expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Italy]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Qatar]]
[[Category:French football managers]]
[[Category:Ivory Coast national football team managers]]
[[Category:El Jaish SC managers]]
[[Category:Stade Rennais FC managers]]
[[Category:Nottingham Forest F.C. managers]]
[[Category:Al-Duhail SC managers]]
[[Category:Cardiff City F.C. managers]]
[[Category:Al-Riyadh SC managers]]
[[Category:Tunisia national football team managers]]
[[Category:2013 Africa Cup of Nations managers]]
[[Category:2014 FIFA World Cup managers]]
[[Category:Ligue 1 managers]]
[[Category:English Football League managers]]
[[Category:Saudi Pro League managers]]
[[Category:Saudi First Division League managers]]
[[Category:French expatriate football managers]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in England]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in Ivory Coast]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in Qatar]]
[[Category:Expatriate football managers in Saudi Arabia]]
[[Category:French expatriate sportspeople in England]]
[[Category:French expatriate sportspeople in Italy]]
[[Category:French expatriate sportspeople in Ivory Coast]]
[[Category:French expatriate sportspeople in Qatar]]
[[Category:French expatriate sportspeople in Saudi Arabia]]
[[Category:French sportspeople of Tunisian descent]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup managers]]