{{short description|Swiss footballer (born 1998)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=November 2022}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Eray Cömert
| image = Eray Cömert 2019 (cropped).jpg
| caption = Cömert with [[FC Basel|Basel]] in 2019
| full_name = Eray Ervin Cömert<ref name="FIFA 2022">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce44/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 – Squad list: Switzerland (SUI) |publisher=[[FIFA]] |page=28 |date=15 November 2022 |access-date=15 November 2022}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1998|2|4|df=yes}}
| birth_place = [[Rheinfelden (Aargau)|Rheinfelden]], Switzerland
| death_date = 
| height = 1.83 m
| position = [[Centre-back]]
| currentclub = [[Valencia CF|Valencia]]
| clubnumber = 24
| youthyears1 = 2006–2009
| youthclubs1 = [[FC Concordia Basel|Concordia Basel]]
| youthyears2 = 2009–2016
| youthclubs2 = [[FC Basel|Basel]]
| years1 = 2016–2022
| clubs1 = [[FC Basel|Basel]]
| caps1 = 101
| goals1 = 5
| years2 = 2017
| clubs2 = → [[FC Lugano|Lugano]] (loan)
| caps2 = 12
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2017–2018
| clubs3 = → [[FC Sion|Sion]] (loan)
| caps3 = 12
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2022–
| clubs4 = [[Valencia CF|Valencia]]
| caps4 = 48
| goals4 = 3
| years5 = 2023–2024
| clubs5 = → [[FC Nantes|Nantes]] (loan)
| caps5 = 25
| goals5 = 2
| years6 = 2024–2025
| clubs6 = → [[Real Valladolid|Valladolid]] (loan)
| caps6 = 25
| goals6 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2013–2014
| nationalteam1 = [[Switzerland national under-16 football team|Switzerland U16]]
| nationalcaps1 = 6
| nationalgoals1 = 1
| nationalyears2 = 2014–2015
| nationalteam2 = [[Switzerland national under-17 football team|Switzerland U17]]
| nationalcaps2 = 7
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2015–2016
| nationalteam3 = [[Switzerland national under-18 football team|Switzerland U18]]
| nationalcaps3 = 5
| nationalgoals3 = 0
| nationalyears4 = 2016–2017
| nationalteam4 = [[Switzerland national under-19 football team|Switzerland U19]]
| nationalcaps4 = 7
| nationalgoals4 = 0
| nationalyears5 = 2018–2021
| nationalteam5 = [[Switzerland national under-21 football team|Switzerland U21]]
| nationalcaps5 = 9
| nationalgoals5 = 3
| nationalyears6 = 2019–
| nationalteam6 = [[Switzerland national football team|Switzerland]]
| nationalcaps6 = 22
| nationalgoals6 = 0
| club-update = 27 May 2026
| nationalteam-update = 6 June 2026
}}

'''Eray Ervin Cömert''' (born 4 February 1998) is a Swiss professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[centre-back]] for Spanish club [[Valencia CF|Valencia]] and the [[Switzerland national football team|Switzerland national team]].

==Club career==
===Basel===
====Youth football====
Cömert started his youth football with [[FC Concordia Basel|Concordia Basel]]. In 2009, he transferred to the youth system of [[FC Basel|Basel]] advancing regularly through the ranks. In summer 2014, he advanced to their U-18 team under coach [[Raphael Wicky]], playing more than half of the games that season and winning the Swiss U-18 Cup.<ref name="fcb-aktuell-2014/15-U-18-Cupsieger">{{cite web | first = | last = FC Basel 1893 | author-link = | date = 26 May 2015 | url = https://www.fcb.ch/aktuell/news/nachwuchs/2015/05/die-fcb-u18-ist-cupsieger/ | title = Die FCB U-18 ist Cupsieger | format = | work = | publisher = FC Basel 1893 AG | language = de-ch | trans-title = The FCB U-18 are cup winners | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

In the following season, he started with the U-18 team and during the winter break advanced to their U-21 team, who played in the [[Swiss Promotion League|Promotion League]] the third highest tier in the [[Swiss football league system]]. Just a few months later, Basel's first team secured the Swiss championship with the 2–1 victory over [[FC Sion|Sion]]. Basel's head coach [[Urs Fischer (footballer)|Urs Fischer]] had nominated Cömert as substitute for that match and nominated him into the starting eleven for each of the last five games of the season.<ref name="fcb-aktuell-2015/16-FCB Meister">{{cite web | first = | last = FC Basel 1893 | author-link = | date = 30 April 2016 | url = https://www.fcb.ch/aktuell/news/1-mannschaft/2016/04/es-ist-vollbracht-der-fcb-ist-zum-19-mal-meister/ | title = Es ist vollbracht! Der FCB ist zum 19. Mal Meister | format = | work = | publisher = FC Basel 1893 AG | language = de-ch | trans-title = It is done! FCB is champion for the 19th time | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> He played his [[Swiss Super League|domestic league]] debut for the club in the away game in the [[Letzigrund]] on 7 May 2016 as Basel won 3–2 against [[FC Zürich|Zürich]].<ref name="fcb-achiv-2015/16-FCZ-FCB">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | date = 7 May 2016 | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/spiele?command=detail&id=31056 | title = FC Zürich - FC Basel 2:3 (1:1) | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv" | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

For their [[2016–17 FC Basel season|2016–17 season]], Cömert trained with the first team but played for the U-21 team to gain playing experience. He played in nine test games for the first team and had two 90-minute appearances for them in [[2016–17 Swiss Cup|that season's Swiss Cup]]. At the end of [[2016–17 FC Basel season|Basel's 2016–17 season]], the team won the championship.<ref name="fcb-aktuell-2016/17-Saisonabschluss">{{cite web | first = Casper | last = Marti | author-link = | date = 2 June 2017 | url = https://www.fcb.ch/aktuell/news/1-mannschaft/2017/06/der-saisonabschluss-im-zeitraffer/ | title = Der Saisonabschluss im Zeitraffer | format = | work = The end of the season in time lapse | publisher = FC Basel 1893 AG | language = de-ch | access-date = 2022-11-16}}</ref> They also won the [[2016–17 Swiss Cup]], defeating [[FC Sion|Sion]] 3–0 in the final, which meant they had won the double.<ref name="thegenevist.com-Basel wins 3-0 over Sion">{{cite web | first = Laila | last = Rodriguez-Bloch | author-link = | date = 25 May 2017 | url = https://thegenevist.com/2017/05/25/swiss-football-fc-basel-wins-3-0-over-sion-in-geneva-police-extra-vigilant-after-game/ | title = Swiss Football Cup: FC Basel wins 3–0 over Sion in Geneva | format = | work = | website = thegenevist.com | language = en | access-date = 2022-11-16}}</ref>

====Loans to Lugano and Sion====
On 8 March 2017, Basel announced that they were loaning out Cömert to [[FC Lugano|Lugano]], until the end of the [[2016–17 Swiss Super League|2016–17 Swiss Super League season]], so that he could gain first team playing experience.<ref name="fcb 2017-03-08">{{cite web | last = FC Basel 1893 | year = 2017 | url = https://www.fcb.ch/de-CH/News/2017/03/04/Cuemart-zu-Lugano | title = Cuemart zu Lugano | publisher = FC Basel 1893 | access-date = 8 March 2017 | archive-date = 5 December 2018 | archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20181205060744/https://www.fcb.ch/de-CH/News/2017/03/04/Cuemart-zu-Lugano | url-status = dead }}</ref> He played the last 12 Matches of the season, each over the full 90 minutes and helped the team to avoid relegation. After the loan period he returned to his club of origin, but on 7 July Basel announced that they were loaning Cömert out to [[FC Sion|Sion]], for the [[2017–18 Swiss Super League|2017–18 Super League season]]. However, in his very first game he injured his shoulder and missed the rest of the matches in that year. He returned in the new year, but after just ten games the injury reoccurred and he missed the rest of the season.<ref name="fcb 2017-07-07">{{cite web | last = FC Basel 1893 | year = 2017 | url = https://www.fcb.ch/de-CH/News/2017/07/07/Eray-geht-zu-Sion | title = Eray Cümart leihweise zum FC Sion | publisher = FC Basel 1893 | access-date = 7 July 2017 | archive-date = 11 June 2021 | archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20210611114435/https://www.fcb.ch/de-CH/News/2017/07/07/Eray-geht-zu-Sion | url-status = dead }}</ref>

====Breakthrough====
After the loan period, in July 2018, Cömert again returned to Basel. But [[2018–19 FC Basel season|Basel's 2018–19 season]] started badly. Already in pre-season friendlies things went wrong and as the team started their league season they lost the first home game against [[FC St. Gallen|St. Gallen]]. Head coach [[Raphaël Wicky]] was immediately replaced by [[Marcel Koller]]. But things were not much better, Basel ended the league season second, 20 points behind champions [[BSC Young Boys|Young Boys]]. Nevertheless, Basel won the [[2018–19 Swiss Cup|Swiss Cup in the 2018–19 season]]. The final was held on 19 May 2019 in the [[Stade de Suisse|Stade de Suisse Wankdorf Bern]] against [[FC Thun|Thun]]. Striker [[Albian Ajeti]] scored the first goal, [[Fabian Frei]] the second for Basel, then [[Dejan Sorgić]] netted a goal for Thun, but the result was 2–1 for Basel.<ref name="fcb-achiv-fcb-thun-cupfinal-2018–19">{{cite web | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/spiele?command=detail&id=31396 | title = FC Basel - FC Thun 2:1 (1:0) | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | access-date = 16 November 2023}}</ref> Cömert scored his first goal for his team in the home game in the [[St. Jakob-Park]] on 23 August. It was the 1st leg of the [[2018–19 UEFA Europa League]] play-off round and it was the winning goal of the match as Basel won 3–2 against [[Apollon Limassol]].<ref name="Uefa-2018/19-UEL-FCB-Apollon Limassol">{{cite web | first = | last = uefa.com | author-link = | date = 23 August 2018 | url = https://www.uefa.com/uefaeuropaleague/match/2025410--basel-vs-apollon/ | title = FC Basel 3-2 Apollon Limassol FC | format = | work = | publisher = [[UEFA]] | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref><ref name="fcb-achiv-2018/19-UEL-FCB-Apollon Limassol">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | date = 23 August 2018 | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/spiele?command=detail&id=31351 | title = FC Basel - Apollon Limassol FC 3:2 (1:0) | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv" | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> He scored his first [[Swiss Super League|domestic league]] goal for his team in the away game in the [[Swissporarena]] on 25 November 2018. It was the equaliser in the fifth minute of added time as Basel played a 1–1 draw with [[FC Luzern|Luzern]].<ref name="fcb-achiv-2018/19-FCL-FCB">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | date = 25 November 2018 | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/spiele?command=detail&id=31325 | title = FC Luzern - FC Basel 1:1 (1:0) | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv" | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> This season was the breakthrough for the central defender.<ref name="Tagblatt-2018-Eray Cömert">{{cite web | first = Céline | last = Feller | author-link = | date = 15 September 2018 | url = https://www.tagblatt.ch/sport/basel/eray-comert-ist-in-der-fcb-innenverteidigung-die-konstante-mit-der-kraft-eines-lowen-ld.1529888 | title = Eray Cömert ist in der FCB-Innenverteidigung die Konstante mit der Kraft eines Löwen | format = | work = | trans-title = Eray Cömert is the constant in the FCB central defense with the strength of a lion | publisher = tagblatt.ch | language = de-ch | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> Cömert totaled 31 appearances, 24 League, two in the Cup and five in the UEFA competitions ([[UEFA Champions League|Champions League]] and [[UEFA Europa League|Europa League]]. He scored those afore mentioned two goals in these matches.<ref name="fcb-achiv-2018/19-Cömert-statistic">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | date = | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/statistik?saison=2018/19 | title = Statistics 2018/19 | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

====Regular starter====
[[Marcel Koller]] remained FCB first team manager for their [[2019–20 FC Basel season|2019–20 season]]. The season started out well, despite the fact that Basel lost their first home game at the [[St. Jakob-Park]], after 11 rounds they were leading the table having won eight of these rounds. There after, however, they were defeated in three consecutive away games and thus slipped to second position in the table before the winter break. At the start of the second half of season the team suffered two straight off defeats against reigning Swiss champions [[BSC Young Boys|Young Boys]] and the team [[FC St. Gallen|St. Gallen]] who then rose to the top of the league table. Following a home defeat against bottom of the table [[FC Thun|Thun]], Basel lost contact to the top two teams and never caught up with them again. All matches in Switzerland between 28 February and end of May were postponed due to the [[COVID-19 pandemic in Switzerland|outbreak of COVID-19 in Switzerland]]. Basel ended the season in third position.<ref name="rsssf-Switzerland 2019/20">{{cite web | first = Karel | last = Stokkermans | author-link = | year =2021 | url = https://www.rsssf.org/tablesz/zwit2020.html | title = Switzerland 2019/20 | publisher = Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> In the [[2019–20 Swiss Cup]] Basel advanced to the final, but here they were defeated 2–1 by Young Boys.<ref name="sfv-cup-2019/20-FCB-YB">{{cite web | first = | last = Swiss Football Verband (SFV) | author-link = | date = 30 August 2020 | url = https://www.football.ch/sfv/schweizer-cups/schweizer-cup/statistik-und-resultate.aspx/oid-1/s-2020/cp-3954/cr-109/tg-3452936/ | title = FC Basel - BSC Young Boys 1:2 (1:0) | format = | work = | publisher = Swiss Football Verband (SFV) website | language = de | trans-title =  | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> In the [[2019–20 UEFA Champions League]] Basel started in the qualifying phase. In the return game of the second qualifying round at home against [[PSV Eindhoven]] Cömert scored his first [[UEFA Champions League|Champions League]] goal. It was the first goal of the match as Basel went on to win 2–1 and they qualified to the next round. Here, however, they were knocked out and continued in the [[2019–20 UEFA Europa League]]. Basel won their group and advanced against [[APOEL FC|APOEL]] and [[Eintracht Frankfurt]] to the quarter-finals. But were knocked out here by [[FC Shakhtar Donetsk|Shakhtar Donetsk]].<ref name="Uefa-2018/20-UEL-Schachtar Donezk-FC Basel">{{cite web | first = | last = uefa.com | author-link = | date = 11 August 2020 | url = https://www.uefa.com/uefaeuropaleague/match/2030139/ | title = Schachtar Donezk - FC Basel 4:1 (2:0) | format = | work = | publisher = [[UEFA]] | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> Cömert totaled _ appearances, 33 League games scoring two goals, three in the Cup, but without scoring, and 14 in the UEFA competitions ([[UEFA Champions League|Champions League]] and [[UEFA Europa League|Europa League]] scoring the afore mentioned goal against [[PSV Eindhoven]].<ref name="fcb-achiv-Statistics 2019/20">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | date = 30 August 2020 | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/statistik?saison=2019/20 | title = Statistics 2019/20 | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

On 26 August, the club announced that [[Ciriaco Sforza]] had been hired as the first team manager as of 1 September 2020 for their [[2020–21 FC Basel season|2020–21 season]]. The season started somewhat despairing, four defeats, one draw and three victories in eight games. But they caught themselves, six wins in eleven games brought the team to second position in the table by the winter break. After the new year things went wrong again, five defeats and only one victory in the first nine games, so on 6 April 2021, Ciriaco Sforza was sacked "due to the recent poor results". [[Patrick Rahmen]], the former assistant manager, took over as interim manager.<ref name="fcb-aktuell2020/21-FCB-Sforza">{{cite web | first = | last = FC Basel 1893 | author-link = | date = 6 April 2021 | url = https://www.fcb.ch/aktuell/news/1-mannschaft/2021/04/der-fcb-und-ciriaco-sforza-gehen-getrennte-wege/ | title = Der FCB und Ciriaco Sforza gehen getrennte wege | format = | work = | publisher = FC Basel 1893 AG | language = de-ch | trans-title = FCB and Ciriaco Sforza are going their separate ways | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> Basel ended the league as runners-up.<ref name="rsssf-Switzerland 2020/2021">{{cite web | first = Karel | last = Stokkermans | author-link = | year =2022 | url = https://www.rsssf.org/tablesz/zwit2021.html | title = Switzerland 2020/2021 | publisher = Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> In the [[2020–21 Swiss Cup]] the team started in the third round and they messed things up completely, a 6–2 defeat against lower tier [[FC Winterthur|Winterthur]]. In the shortened [[2020–21 UEFA Europa League]] Basel advanced from the second qualifying round but were eliminated by [[PFC CSKA Sofia|CSKA Sofia]] in the play-off round. Basel lost 3–1 after full-time and failed to qualify for the group stage.<ref name="Uefa-Basel – CSKA Sofia-2020/21">{{cite web | last = uefa.com | author-link = | date = 1 October 2020 | url = https://www.uefa.com/uefaeuropaleague/match/2030540--basel-vs-cska-sofia/ | title = Basel – CSKA Sofia – Overview | format = | work = | publisher = [[UEFA]] | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> Cömert had a total of 33 appearances, 30 in the League, scoring one goal, and three in the [[2020–21 UEFA Europa League]] without scoring.<ref name="fcb-achiv-Statistics 2020/21">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | date = 21 May 2021 | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/statistik?saison=2020/21 | title = Statistics 2020/21 | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

[[Patrick Rahmen]] remained Basel's head coach for their [[2021–22 FC Basel season|2021–22 season]]. The team started well into the [[2021–22 Swiss Super League|league season]]. Cömert scored on the second match day, it was the team's third goal, as they went on to win 6–1 against [[FC Sion|Sion]].<ref name="fcb-achiv-2021/22-FCB-Sion">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | date = 1 August 2021 | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/saison/spiele?command=detail&id=31621 | title = FC Basel - FC Sion 6:1 (5:0) | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv" | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref> However, in the return game against Sion Cömert was sent off. In the 88th minute, shortly before Basel's winning goal, he could only catch the escaped [[Adryan]] with an emergency stop foul, for which he was shown the red card. This turned out to be a turning point in the players career. Following his red card in mid-October, the Swiss national team defender to wait for a further appearance in the [[Swiss Super League|Super League]] and this right up until the winter break. Instead of Cömert, FCB coach Patrick Rahmen relied on either veteran [[Fabian Frei]] or youngster [[Nasser Djiga]] in his central defense. Cömert mentioned in interviews that he would welcome a transfer abroad.<ref name="Blick-2021-Cömert">{{cite web | first = Stefan | last = Kreis | author-link = | date = 2 December 2021 | url = https://www.blick.ch/sport/fussball/superleague/fcb-eigengewaechs-vor-abgang-abloese-zoff-um-nati-verteidiger-coemert-id17035725.html | title = Ablöse-Zoff um Nati-Spieler Eray Cömert! | work = | trans-title = Transfer dispute over Nati player Eray Cömert! | publisher = Blick | language = de-ch | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

The club announced on 25 February 2022 that Cömert had transferred to Spanish club [[Valencia CF|Valencia]].<ref name="fcb-aktuell-Eray Cömert">{{cite web | last = FC Basel 1893 | author-link = | date = 25 January 2022 | url = https://www.fcb.ch/aktuell/news/1-mannschaft/2022/01/coemert-zu-valencia/ | title = Eray Cömert wechselt zum Valencia CF | format = | work = Eray Cömert moves to Valencia CF | publisher = FC Basel 1893 AG | access-date = 25 January 2022}}</ref>

Between the years 2016 and 2017 and again from 2018 to 2022, Cömert played a total of 147 games for Basel scoring a total of seven goals. 101 of these games were in the [[Swiss Super League]], 9 in the [[Swiss Cup]], 30 in the UEFA competitions (Champions League, Europa League and Conference League). He scored five goals in the domestic league and two in the European games.<ref name="fcb-achiv-Eray Cömert">{{cite web | first = | last = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | author-link = | year = 2022 | url = https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/spieler?command=detail&id=9748 | title = Eray Cömert - FCB statistic | format = | work = | publisher = Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv” | accessdate = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

===Valencia===
On 25 January 2022, Cömert moved abroad for the first time in his career, after signing a four-and-a-half-year contract with [[La Liga]] side [[Valencia CF]],<ref name=VAL>{{cite web|url=https://www.valenciacf.com/en/article/en-official-statement-eray-coemert-2022-01-25|title=OFFICIAL STATEMENT {{!}} ERAY CÖMERT|publisher=Valencia CF|date=25 January 2022|access-date=26 January 2022}}</ref> for a rumoured fee of €800,000.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://plazadeportiva.valenciaplaza.com/el-valencia-pagara-cerca-de-800000-euros-por-eray-comert|title=El Valencia pagará cerca de 800.000 euros por Eray Cömert|trans-title=Valencia will pay nearly 800,000 euros for Eray Cömert|publisher=Plaza Deportiva|language=es|date=24 January 2022|access-date=26 January 2022}}</ref> Cömert settled in slowly but surely before participating, in eight league matches in the [[2021–22 La Liga]] season and 23 league games scoring one league goal in the [[2022–23 La Liga]] season.

====Loan to Nantes====
On 26 August 2023, [[FC Nantes|Nantes]] announced that they and Valencia had reached an agreement on the loan of Cömert for the [[2023–24 Ligue 1]] season. The contract contains an option to make the move permanent.<ref name="Nantes-Valencia-Cömert-Nantes">{{cite web | first = | last = red. FC Nantes | author-link = | date = 26 August 2023 | url = https://www.fcnantes.com/articles/article2809.php?num=43430 | title = Eray Cömert rejoint le FC Nantes | format = | work = | trans-title = Eray Cömert joins FC Nantes | publisher = FC Nantes | language = fr | access-date = 2023-11-16}}</ref>

====Loan to Valladolid====
On 10 July 2024, Cömert moved to fellow Spanish top-tier side [[Real Valladolid]] on loan for one year.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.valenciacf.com/comunicado-oficial-eray-comert|title=Comunicado oficial {{!}} Eray Cömert|trans-title=Official announcement {{!}} Eray Cömert|publisher=Valencia CF|language=es|date=10 July 2024|access-date=10 July 2024}}</ref>

==International career==
Cömert was born in [[Rheinfelden (Aargau)|Rheinfelden]], Switzerland and is of Turkish descent. Cömert played various international games for the [[Switzerland national under-15 football team|Switzerland U15]], [[Switzerland national under-16 football team|U16]] and [[Switzerland national under-17 football team|U17 teams]]. He made his debut for the [[Switzerland national under-18 football team|Switzerland U18 national team]] as [[centre-back]] on 22 September 2015 as they won 2–1 against the [[Denmark national under-19 football team|Denmark U19]]. On 30 August 2016 he played his first game for the [[Switzerland national under-19 football team|Switzerland U19]] and led the team as captain to a 1–0 victory against the [[Slovakia national under-19 football team|Slovakia U19]].<ref name="sfv-2016-08-30">{{cite web | last = SFV | year = 2016 | url = http://www.football.ch/SFV/Nationalteams/U-19/Statistik-und-Resultate.aspx/tg-2657455 | title = Telegramm Slowakei – Schweiz | publisher = Schweizerischer Fussballverband | access-date = 30 August 2016}}</ref>

He made his debut for [[Switzerland national football team|Switzerland national team]] on 18 November 2019 in a [[UEFA Euro 2020 qualifying Group D|Euro 2020 qualifier]] against Gibraltar. He substituted [[Manuel Akanji]] in the 65th minute.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=[[UEFA]]|url=https://www.uefa.com/european-qualifiers/match/2026000--gibraltar-vs-switzerland/|title=Gibraltar v Switzerland game report|date=18 November 2019}}</ref> In 2021, he was called up to the national team for the [[UEFA European Championship|2020 UEFA European Championship]], where the team reached the quarter-finals.<ref>[https://www.uefa.com / uefaeuro-2020 / match / 2024485 – switzerland-vs-spain / lineups /? iv = true]</ref>

== Career statistics ==
=== Club ===
{{updated|match played 5 April 2026}}<ref>{{cite web|url=https://int.soccerway.com/players/eray-cumart/372381/|title=E.Cömert: Summary|website=Soccerway|publisher=Perform Group|access-date=25 May 2023}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Swiss Cup]], [[Copa del Rey]], [[Coupe de France]]}}
!colspan="2"|Europe
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="7"|[[FC Basel|Basel]]
|[[2015–16 FC Basel season|2015–16]]
|[[Swiss Super League]]
|5||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|–||5||0
|-
|[[2016–17 FC Basel season|2016–17]]
|Swiss Super League
|0||0||2||0||0||0||colspan="2"|–||2||0
|-
|[[2018–19 FC Basel season|2018–19]]
|Swiss Super League
|24||1||1||0||5{{efn|One appearance in [[UEFA Champions League]], four appearances and one goal in [[UEFA Europa League]]}}||1||colspan="2"|–||30||2
|-
|[[2019–20 FC Basel season|2019–20]]
|Swiss Super League
|33||2||3||0||14{{efn|Four appearances and one goal in UEFA Champions League, ten appearances in UEFA Europa League}}||1||colspan="2"|–||50||3
|-
|[[2020–21 FC Basel season|2020–21]]
|Swiss Super League
|30||1||0||0||3{{efn|Appearances in UEFA Europa League}}||0||colspan="2"|–||33||1
|-
|[[2021–22 FC Basel season|2021–22]]
|Swiss Super League
|9||1||2||0||8{{efn|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa Conference League]]}}||0||colspan="2"|–||19||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!101!!5!!8!!0!!30!!2!!colspan="2"|–!!139!!7
|-
|[[FC Lugano|Lugano]] (loan)
|[[2016–17 Swiss Super League|2016–17]]
|Swiss Super League
|12||0||0||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||12||0
|-
|[[FC Sion|Sion]] (loan)
|[[2017–18 Swiss Super League|2017–18]]
|Swiss Super League
|12||0||0||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||12||0
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Valencia CF|Valencia]]
|[[2021–22 Valencia CF season|2021–22]]
|[[La Liga]]
|8||0||1||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||9||0
|-
|[[2022–23 Valencia CF season|2022–23]]
|La Liga
|23||1||1||0||colspan="2"|–||1{{efn|Appearance in [[Supercopa de España]]}}||0||25||1
|-
|[[2025–26 Valencia CF season|2025–26]]
|La Liga
|13||2||4||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||17||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!44!!3!!6!!0!!colspan="2"|–!!1!!0!!51!!3
|-
|[[FC Nantes|Nantes]] (loan)
|[[2023–24 FC Nantes season|2023–24]]
|[[Ligue 1]]
|25||2||2||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||27||2
|-
|[[Real Valladolid|Valladolid]] (loan)
|[[2024–25 Real Valladolid season|2024–25]]
|La Liga
|25||0||3||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||28||0
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!219!!10!!19!!0!!30!!2!!1!!0!!269!!12
|}
{{notelist}}

==Honours==
'''FC Basel U18'''
*Swiss U-18 Cup: 2014–15<ref name="fcb-aktuell-2014/15-U-18-Cupsieger" />

'''FC Basel'''
*[[Swiss Super League]]: [[2015–16 Swiss Super League|2015–16]], [[2016–17 Swiss Super League|2016–17]]
*[[Swiss Cup]]: [[2016–17 Swiss Cup|2016–17]], [[2018–19 Swiss Cup|2018–19]]

'''Individual'''
*[[Swiss Footballer of the Year#Swiss Super League Team of the Year|Swiss Super League Team of the Year]]: [[2019–20 Swiss Super League#Annual awards|2019–20]],<ref>{{Cite web |date=2020-01-30 |title=SAFP Golden 11 2019 |url=https://golden11.ch/awards/2019 |access-date=2022-11-28 |website=Golden11 |language=en-US}}</ref> [[2020–21 Swiss Super League#Annual awards|2020–21]]<ref>{{Cite web |date=2021-02-02 |title=SAFP Golden 11 Winners 2020 |url=https://golden11.ch/awards/safp-golden-11-winners-2020 |access-date=2022-11-28 |website=Golden11 |language=en-US}}</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* [https://www.fcb-archiv.ch/spieler?command=detail&id=9748 fcb-archiv.ch]
* [https://www.valenciacf.com/en/sports/en-first-team-01/player/eray-coemert Profile] at the Valencia CF website
* [https://web.archive.org/web/20160604002436/http://www.sfl.ch/superleague/klubs/fc-basel-1893/player/eray-cuemart/season/201516/ season 2015/16 on the Swiss Football League homepage]
* {{NFT player|76255}}

{{Valencia CF squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Switzerland squads
| bg = red
| fg = white
| bordercolor = #CC0000
| list1 = 
{{Switzerland squad UEFA Euro 2020}}
{{Switzerland squad 2022 FIFA World Cup}}
{{Switzerland squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Comert, Eray}}
[[Category:1998 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Basel-Stadt]]
[[Category:Sportspeople of Turkish descent]]
[[Category:Swiss people of Turkish descent]]
[[Category:Swiss men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football central defenders]]
[[Category:Switzerland men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Switzerland men's under-21 international footballers]]
[[Category:Switzerland men's international footballers]]
[[Category:UEFA Euro 2020 players]]
[[Category:2022 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:Swiss Super League players]]
[[Category:La Liga players]]
[[Category:Ligue 1 players]]
[[Category:FC Basel players]]
[[Category:FC Lugano players]]
[[Category:FC Sion players]]
[[Category:Valencia CF players]]
[[Category:FC Nantes players]]
[[Category:Real Valladolid players]]
[[Category:Swiss expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Spain]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Spain]]
[[Category:21st-century Swiss sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]