{{Short description|Colombian footballer (born 1998)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2023}}
{{family name hatnote|Lucumí|Bonilla|lang=Spanish}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Jhon Lucumí
|image = Jhon Lucumí September 2019.jpg
|caption = Lucumí playing for [[K.R.C. Genk|Genk]] in 2019
|full_name = Jhon Janer Lucumí Bonilla
|birth_date = {{birth date and age|df=yes|1998|6|26}}
|birth_place = [[Cali]], Colombia
|height = 1.87 m
|currentclub = [[Bologna FC 1909|Bologna]]
|clubnumber = 26
|position = [[Centre-back]]
|years1 = 2015–2018
|clubs1 = [[Deportivo Cali]]
|caps1 = 42
|goals1 = 0
|years2 = 2018–2022
|clubs2 = [[K.R.C. Genk|Genk]]
|caps2 = 91
|goals2 = 2
|years3 = 2022–
|clubs3 = [[Bologna FC 1909|Bologna]]
|caps3 = 123
|goals3 = 1
|nationalyears1 = 2015
|nationalteam1 = [[Colombia national under-17 football team|Colombia U17]]
|nationalcaps1 = 8
|nationalgoals1 = 0
|nationalyears2 = 2019–
|nationalteam2 = [[Colombia national football team|Colombia]]
|nationalcaps2 = 35
|nationalgoals2 = 1
|pcupdate = 23 May 2026 (UTC)
|ntupdate = 26 March 2026 (UTC)
|medaltemplates = {{MedalCountry|{{fb|COL}}}}
{{MedalSport|Men's [[association football|football]]}}
{{MedalCompetition|[[Copa América]]}}
{{Medal|RU|[[2024 Copa América|2024 United States]]|}}
{{Medal|3rd|[[2021 Copa América|2021 Brazil]]|}}
}}

'''Jhon Janer Lucumí Bonilla''' (born 26 June 1998) is a Colombian professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[centre-back]] for {{Italian football updater|Bologna}} club [[Bologna FC 1909|Bologna]] and the [[Colombia national football team|Colombia national team]].

A youth product of hometown club [[Deportivo Cali]], Lucumí made his professional football debut with the first team in 2015. After three years with the club, he transferred to [[Belgian First Division A|Belgian Pro League]] side [[K.R.C. Genk]], where he achieved a league title along with the [[Belgian Super Cup]] in his first season. In 2021, Lucumí won the [[2021 Belgian Cup Final|Belgian Cup]] before moving to [[Serie A]] to play for [[Bologna F.C. 1909|Bologna]] the following year. He was a fundamental part of the squad that won the [[Coppa Italia]] in [[2024–25 Coppa Italia|2025]].

At youth level, Lucumí was part of the Colombia U-17 squad that won gold at the [[Football at the 2014 South American Games|2014 South American Games]]. Additionally, he represented his country at the [[2015 South American U-17 Championship]]. In 2018, he received his first call-up to [[Colombia national football team|Colombia's senior team]], however, his debut would come a year later in a friendly against [[Panama national football team|Panama]]. He has participated in three [[Copa América]]'s with Colombia; in 2019, in 2021, earning a [[bronze medal]], and in 2024, where Colombia were [[Runner-up|runners-up]].

==Club career==
===Deportivo Cali===
Deportivo Cali
Jhon Lucumí joined the youth academy of his hometown club, [[Deportivo Cali]], in 2007. After progressing through their ranks, he made his senior team debut for the club in 2015, featuring in the [[Categoría Primera A|Liga Dimayor Finalización]]. He officially made his professional debut in the top flight on 17 February 2016, starting in a [[Categoría Primera A|Liga Águila Apertura]] match against [[Fortaleza CEIF]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=Cali 1-0 Fortaleza (Feb 17, 2016) Final Score |url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/442484/fortaleza-ceif-deportivo-cali |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.espn.com |language=en}}</ref>

During his time at [[Deportivo Cali]], Lucumí steadily established himself as a promising young defender. While he was part of the club's setup when they won the [[Categoría Primera A|Liga Águila I-2015]], his significant first-team involvement began in subsequent seasons.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Perilla |first=William |date=2018-08-28 |title=Conoce a Jhon Janer Lucumí, el nuevo defensa de la Selección |url=https://colombia.as.com/colombia/2018/08/28/futbol/1535467487_578008.html |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.colombia.as.com |language=es-co}}</ref> He made 8 appearances in the Liga Dimayor Finalización in 2015, 5 appearances in 2016, and 12 in 2017 in the Colombian domestic league.{{citation needed|date=June 2025}}

In the 2018 season, his final year with the club, Lucumí made 20 appearances across all competitions. This included 18 matches in the [[Categoría Primera A|Liga Águila Apertura]] and two appearances in the [[Copa Sudamericana]] against [[Danubio F.C.|Danubio FC]], where [[Deportivo Cali]] advanced in the tie.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2024-07-18 |title=Jhon Lucumi: Bologna’s Colombian Colossus in Defense |url=https://breakingthelines.com/player-analysis/jhon-lucumi-bolognas-colombian-colossus-in-defense/ |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.breakingthelines.com |language=en-GB}}</ref> He also featured in one [[Copa Libertadores]] match in 2016.{{citation needed|date=June 2025}}

Lucumí's consistent performances attracted interest from European clubs. On 18 July 2018, he departed [[Deportivo Cali]] to join Belgian club [[K.R.C. Genk|KRC Genk]].<ref>{{Cite web |last= |first= |date=18 July 2018 |title=Oficial: Jhon Lucumí dejó el Cali y jugará en el Genk de Bélgica |url=https://www.futbolred.com/colombianos-en-el-exterior/jhon-lucumi-dejo-el-cali-y-jugara-en-el-genk-de-belgica-86366 |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.futbolred.com |language=spanish}}</ref>

===Genk===
On 17 July 2018, Lucumí completed a [[transfer (association football)|transfer]] to Belgian Pro League side [[K.R.C. Genk|Genk]].{{citation needed|date=June 2025}}

In his debut [[2018–19 K.R.C. Genk season|2018–19 season]], Lucumí quickly established himself as a key defensive figure. He made 10 appearances in the [[2018–19 Belgian First Division A|Belgian Pro League]], 8 in the [[2018–19 UEFA Europa League|UEFA Europa League]], 2 in the [[2018–19 Belgian Cup|Croky Cup]], and 5 in the [[2018–19 UEFA Europa League qualifying phase and play-off round|UEFA Europa League Qualifiers]], contributing to Genk's triumph in winning the [[2018–19 Belgian First Division A|Belgian First Division A]] title.<ref>{{Cite web |last= |title=Belgium round-up: Genk crowned champions |url=https://www.uefa.com/news-media/news/0184-0f8e8e833c30-609849181c69-1000--belgium-round-up-genk-crowned-champions/ |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.uefa.com |language=en}}</ref> He also played in 7 Belgian Pro League [[2018–19 Belgian First Division A#Play-offs|Play-offs]] matches, bringing his total appearances for the season to 39. His strong performances also saw Genk lift the [[2019 Belgian Super Cup|Belgian Super Cup]] in his first season, defeating [[K.V. Mechelen|Mechelen]] 3–0 on 20 July 2019.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Genk 3-0 Mechelen - Belgian Super Cup Final |url=https://www.sportsmole.co.uk/football/belgian-super-cup/genk-vs-mechelen_game_94051.html |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.sportsmole.co.uk |language=en-GB}}</ref>
The [[2019–20 K.R.C. Genk season|2019–20 season]] saw Lucumí continue to feature prominently for Genk. He played 22 matches in the [[2019–20 Belgian First Division A|Belgian Pro League]]. He also gained valuable experience in the [[2019–20 UEFA Champions League|UEFA Champions League]], making 6 appearances, where he scored his first goal for the club against [[FC Red Bull Salzburg|RB Salzburg]] in a 6–2 away defeat on 17 September 2019.<ref>{{Cite web |title=FC Red Bull Salzburg v Genk Overview |url=https://www.premierleague.com/en/match/2027023 |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.premierleague.com |language=en}}</ref> In addition, he made one appearance in the [[2019–20 Belgian Cup|Croky Cup]]. He ended the season with 29 appearances and 1 goal.

During the [[2020–21 K.R.C. Genk season|2020–21 campaign]], Lucumí made 32 appearances in the [[2020–21 Belgian First Division A|Belgian Pro League]], 3 in the [[2020–21 Belgian Cup|Croky Cup]], and 6 in the Belgian Pro League Play-offs, contributing to Genk's success in winning the [[2020–21 Belgian Cup|Belgian Cup]] by defeating [[Standard Liège]] 2–1 in the final on 25 April 2021.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Belgian Cup 2020/2021 Results |url=https://www.flashscore.com.ng/football/belgium/belgian-cup-2020-2021/results/ |access-date=2025-09-14 |website=www.flashscore.com.ng |language=en-NG}}</ref> He made a total of 41 appearances that season.

In his final full season, [[2021–22 K.R.C. Genk season|2021–22]], Lucumí played 24 times in the [[2021–22 Belgian First Division A|Belgian Pro League]], scoring his second goal for the club against [[S.V. Zulte Waregem|Zulte Waregem]] in a 2–6 away defeat on 31 October 2021. He also featured in 5 [[2021–22 UEFA Europa League|UEFA Europa League]] matches, 2 [[2021–22 UEFA Champions League qualifying phase and play-off round|UEFA Champions League Qualifying]] matches, 1 [[2021–22 Belgian Cup|Croky Cup]] match, and 5 Belgian Pro League Play-offs matches, accumulating 37 appearances and 1 goal for the season.

Lucumí began the [[2022–23 K.R.C. Genk season|2022–23 season]] with Genk, making 3 appearances in the Belgian Pro League before his departure. His successful four-year stint at Genk concluded on 17 August 2022, when he transferred to [[Serie A]] club [[Bologna FC 1909|Bologna]].

===Bologna===
On 18 August 2022, he moved to Italian club [[Bologna FC 1909|Bologna]].<ref>{{cite web|publisher=Bologna F.C. 1909|url=https://www.bolognafc.it/jhon-lucumi-al-bologna/|title=Jhon Lucumi al Bologna|date=18 August 2022|access-date=18 August 2022|language=it}}</ref> He made his debut on 27 August, playing a full 90 minutes in a 2–0 home defeat to [[A.C. Milan]].<ref name="EurosportDebut">{{cite news|title=AC Milan 2 – 0 Bologna|author=Ethan van Ristell|date=28 August 2022|website=eurosport.com|url=https://www.eurosport.com/football/serie-a/2022-2023/ac-milan-v-bologna-follow-live_sto9101896/story.shtml|access-date=29 May 2023}}</ref>

Lucumí made his first direct goal contribution for the club on 12 November 2022, in a league match against [[U.S. Sassuolo Calcio|Sassuolo]], centering a cross to [[Michel Aebischer]] who scored Bologna's first goal in a 3–0 home win.<ref name="ESPNassistSassuolo">{{cite web|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/commentary/_/gameId/644805|title=Bologna vs. Sassuolo – Football Match Commentary – November 12, 2022|publisher=ESPN|date=12 November 2022|access-date=28 May 2025}}</ref> He concluded his first season (2022–23) having made 33 appearances in Serie A and one appearance in the Coppa Italia.<ref name="FBrefStats">{{cite web|url=https://fbref.com/en/players/80490d7f/Jhon-Lucumi|title=Jhon Lucumí Stats, Goals, Records, Assists, Cups and more|website=FBref.com|access-date=28 May 2025}}</ref>

During the 2023–24 season, Lucumí continued as a regular defender for Bologna, making 29 appearances in Serie A and featuring in two Coppa Italia matches.<ref name="FBrefStats"/> He played a significant role in Bologna's historic campaign, which saw the club qualify for the [[UEFA Champions League]] for the first time in 60 years, having last participated in the 1964–65 European Cup.<ref name="BolognaUCLQualificationReuters">{{cite web|url=https://www.reuters.com/sports/soccer/bologna-qualify-champions-league-atalanta-beat-roma-2-0-2024-05-12/|title=Bologna qualify for Champions League for first time in 60 years|publisher=Reuters|date=12 May 2024|access-date=28 May 2025}}</ref><ref name="BolognaUCLHistory">{{cite web|url=https://www.uefa.com/uefachampionsleague/news/028d-1a87c9680e3c-c1dd2f6c794d-1000--bologna-make-uefa-champions-league-debut-thiago-motta-s-sid/|title=Bologna make UEFA Champions League debut: Thiago Motta's side in focus|publisher=UEFA.com|date=30 August 2024|access-date=28 May 2025}}</ref>

Lucumí scored Bologna's first goal of their [[2024–25 UEFA Champions League]] campaign during a 2–1 home defeat against [[Lille OSC|Lille]] in the [[2024–25 UEFA Champions League league phase|league phase]] on 27 November 2024.<ref name="ESPNUCLGoalLille">{{cite web|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/720403|title=Bologna vs. Lille – Football Match Summary|publisher=ESPN|date=27 November 2024|access-date=28 May 2025}}</ref>

He was also part of the Bologna squad that won the club's first [[Coppa Italia]] since 1974, securing the trophy during the [[2024–25 Coppa Italia|2024–25 season]] with a 1–0 victory against A.C. Milan.<ref>{{cite web|title=Bologna win Coppa Italia|url=https://www.uefa.com/news/027e-176048b0a512-9e5b1d9676ab-1000–bologna-secure-first-coppa-italia-title/|publisher=UEFA|date=24 May 2023|access-date=28 May 2025}}</ref>

==International career==

Lucumí has represented Colombia at various youth levels, including the [[Colombia national under-17 football team|U-17]] squad. He was part of the team that won the gold medal at the [[2014 South American Games]], beating Argentina 2–1 in the final.

He made his [[Colombia national football team|Colombia national team]] debut on 3 June 2019, in a [[Exhibition game#Association football|friendly]] against [[Panama national football team|Panama]], as a starter under then-manager [[Carlos Queiroz]].<ref>{{cite web|publisher=ESPN|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match?gameId=539194|title=Colombia v Panama game report|date=3 June 2019}}</ref> Later that month, he was included in Colombia's squad for the [[2019 Copa América]] in Brazil, making one appearance in the group stage against Paraguay.

Lucumí was also named in the Colombia squad for the [[2021 Copa América]] in Brazil.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://en.as.com/en/2021/06/14/soccer/1623690475_049892.html |title=Colombia squad for 2021 Copa América: selected players absences... – AS USA – Diario AS |date=14 June 2021 |access-date=2025-05-28}}</ref> Although he was part of the squad that secured a bronze medal, he did not make any appearances in the tournament.

Lucumí became a more regular fixture in the national team during the [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification (CONMEBOL)|2026 FIFA World Cup qualifiers]]. He has made 12 appearances in the qualification campaign as of May 2025.

On 14 June 2024, Lucumí was named into the 26-man [[Colombian national football team|squad]] for the [[2024 Copa América]] held in the United States.<ref>{{cite web |date=14 June 2024 |title=Convocatoria de la Selección Masculina de Mayores para la CONMEBOL Copa América USA 2024 |url=https://www.fcf.com.co/2024/06/14/convocatoria-de-la-seleccion-masculina-de-mayores-para-la-conmebol-copa-america-usa-2024/ |access-date=2024-10-20 |website=Federación Colombiana de Futbol |language=es}}</ref> He was a starter in the first match of the competition against [[Paraguay national football team|Paraguay]] but left injured at the 25th minute due to a thigh injury.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.foxsports.com/soccer/jhon-lucumi-player |title=Jhon Lucumi – Soccer News, Rumors, & Updates | website= Fox Sports |access-date=2024-10-20}}</ref> Although he returned on 10 July from his injury, he was subsequently substituted by [[Carlos Cuesta (footballer)|Carlos Cuesta]] for the remainder of the matches in the tournament. Colombia ultimately finished as runners-up in the tournament.

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 23 May 2026}}

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan=2|Club
!rowspan=2|Season
!colspan=3|League
!colspan=2|National cup
!colspan=2|Continental
!colspan=2|Other
!colspan=2|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="5"|[[Deportivo Cali]]
|[[2015 Categoría Primera A season|2015]]
|[[Categoría Primera A]]
|9||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||9||0
|-
|[[2016 Categoría Primera A season|2016]]
|Categoría Primera A
|4||0||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|Appearance in [[Copa Libertadores]]}}||0||1{{efn|Appearance in [[Superliga Colombiana]]}}||0||6||0
|-
|[[2017 Categoría Primera A season|2017]]
|Categoría Primera A
|11||0||7||0||1{{efn|name=CoS|Appearance(s) in [[Copa Sudamericana]]}}||0||colspan="2"|—||19||0
|-
|[[2018 Categoría Primera A season|2018]]
|Categoría Primera A
|18||0||0||0||2{{efn|name=CoS}}||0||colspan="2"|—||20||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!42!!0!!7!!0!!4!!0!!1!!0!!54!!0
|-
|rowspan="6"|[[K.R.C. Genk|Genk]]
|[[2018–19 K.R.C. Genk season|2018–19]]
|[[Belgian Pro League]]
|10||0||0||0||8{{efn|name=UEL|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa League]]}}||0||7{{efn|name=BPLPO|Appearances in Belgian Pro League play-offs}}||0||25||0
|-
|[[2019–20 K.R.C. Genk season|2019–20]]
|Belgian Pro League
|22||1||0||0||6{{efn|name=UCL|Appearances in [[UEFA Champions League]]}}||0||0||0||28||1
|-
|[[2020–21 K.R.C. Genk season|2020–21]]
|Belgian Pro League
|32||0||0||0||0||0||6{{efn|name=BPLPO}}||0||44||0
|-
|[[2021–22 K.R.C. Genk season|2021–22]]
|Belgian Pro League
|24||1||0||0||7{{efn|Five appearances in UEFA Europa League, two appearances in UEFA Champions League}}||0||5{{efn|name=BPLPO}}||0||36||1
|-
|[[2022–23 K.R.C. Genk season|2022–23]]
|Belgian Pro League
|3||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||3||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!91!!2!!0!!0!!21!!0!!18!!0!!130!!2
|-
|rowspan="5"|[[Bologna FC 1909|Bologna]]
|[[2022–23 Bologna FC 1909 season|2022–23]]
|[[Serie A]]
|33||0||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||34||0
|-
|[[2023–24 Bologna FC 1909 season|2023–24]]
|Serie A
|29||0||2||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||31||0
|-
|[[2024–25 Bologna FC 1909 season|2024–25]]
|Serie A
|32||0||5||0||7{{efn|name=UCL}}||1||colspan="2"|—||44||1
|-
|[[2025–26 Bologna FC 1909 season|2025–26]]
|Serie A
|29||1||2||0||10{{efn|name=UEL}}||0||2{{efn|Appearances in [[Supercoppa Italiana]]}}||0||43||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!123!!1!!10!!0!!17!!1!!2!!0!!152!!2
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!256!!3!!17!!0!!42!!1!!21!!0!!336!!4
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 26 March 2026}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="8"|[[Colombia national football team|Colombia]]
|2019||4||0
|-
|2020||0||0
|-
|2021||0||0
|-
|2022||4||0
|-
|2023||8||0
|-
|2024||10||0
|-
|2025||8||1
|-
|2026||1||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total||35||1
|}

:''Scores and results list Colombia's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Lucumí goal.''<ref name="wfnat"/>

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Jhon Lucumí
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Cap
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
|style="text-align: center;"|1||11 October 2025||[[AT&T Stadium]], [[Arlington, Texas|Arlington]], United States||style="text-align: center;"|31||{{fb|MEX}}||align=center|1–0||align=center|4–0||[[Friendly (association football)|Friendly]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Genk'''
*[[Belgian First Division A]]: [[2018–19 Belgian First Division A|2018–19]]<ref>{{Cite web |title=2018–19, Belgium – Jupiler League – regular – Standings – Football Livescore, standings, results |url=https://terrikon.com/en/football/belgium/championship/2018-19-regular/table |access-date=2025-05-16 |website=terrikon.com}}</ref>
*[[Belgian Cup]]: [[2020–21 Belgian Cup|2020–21]]<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.goal.com/en/news/onuachu-with-an-assist-as-genk-clinch-belgian-cup-title/1jp81i8ofssju1k0yrdb9b6nu8|title=Onuachu with an assist as Genk clinch Belgian Cup title after Standard Liege win|website=Goal|date=26 April 2021|access-date=29 April 2021}}</ref>

'''Bologna'''
*[[Coppa Italia]]: [[2024–25 Coppa Italia|2024–25]]<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/clyglj8evzgt|title=AC Milan 0–1 Bologna: Bologna win Coppa Italia to end 51-year trophy drought|work=BBC Sport|date=14 May 2025|access-date=14 May 2025}}</ref>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

== External links ==
{{Commons category}}
* [https://www.bolognafc.it/player/jhon-lucumi/ Profile] at the Bologna FC 1909 website
* {{UEFA player}}

{{Bologna FC 1909 squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Colombia squads
| bg = #FCD116
| fg = #003893
| bordercolor = #CE1126
| list1 = 
{{Colombia squad 2019 Copa América}}
{{Colombia squad 2021 Copa América}}
{{Colombia squad 2024 Copa América}}
{{Colombia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Lucumi, Jhon}}
[[Category:1998 births]]
[[Category:Footballers from Cali]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Colombian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football central defenders]]
[[Category:Colombia men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:21st-century Colombian sportsmen]]
[[Category:Colombia men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Deportivo Cali footballers]]
[[Category:KRC Genk players]]
[[Category:Bologna FC 1909 players]]
[[Category:Categoría Primera A players]]
[[Category:Belgian Pro League players]]
[[Category:Serie A players]]
[[Category:2019 Copa América players]]
[[Category:2021 Copa América players]]
[[Category:2024 Copa América players]]
[[Category:Colombian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Belgium]]
[[Category:Colombian expatriate sportspeople in Belgium]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Italy]]
[[Category:Colombian expatriate sportspeople in Italy]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]