{{Short description|Iraqi footballer}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=January 2022}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Manaf Younis
| image = 
| image_size = 
| caption = Younis in 2022
| fullname = Manaf Younis Hashim Al-Tekreeti<ref name="FIFA Arab 2021">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce14/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA Arab Cup Qatar 2021: List of players: Iraq |publisher=[[FIFA]] |page=4 |date=4 December 2021 |access-date=12 December 2022}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1996|11|16|df=y}}<ref name="FIFA Arab 2021"/>
| birth_place = [[Tikrit]], [[Iraq]]
| height = 1.90 m<ref name="FIFA Arab 2021"/>
| position = [[Centre-back]]
| currentclub = [[Al-Shorta SC|Al-Shorta]]
| clubnumber = 4
| years1 = 2016–2018
| clubs1 = [[Salahaddin FC|Salahaddin]]
| caps1 = 
| goals1 = 
| years2 = 2019–2022
| clubs2 = [[Al-Karkh SC|Al-Karkh]]
| caps2 = 
| goals2 = 3
| years3 = 2020
| clubs3 = → [[Al-Shorta SC|Al-Shorta]] (loan)
| caps3 = 0
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2022–
| clubs4 = [[Al-Shorta SC|Al-Shorta]]
| caps4 = 105
| goals4 = 4
| nationalyears1 = 2021–
| nationalteam1 = [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
| nationalcaps1 = 27
| nationalgoals1 = 1
| club-update = 2 June 2026
| nationalteam-update = 14 October 2025
}}

'''Manaf Younus Hashim Al-Tekreeti''' ({{langx|ar|مَنَاف يُونُس هَاشِم التِّكرِيْتِيّ}}; born 16 November 1996) is an Iraqi professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[centre-back]] for [[Iraqi Premier League|Iraq Stars League]] club [[Al-Shorta SC|Al-Shorta]] and the [[Iraq national football team|Iraq national team]].

Younis scored the winner in the 123rd minute of the [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup]] final, handing Iraq the trophy over [[Oman national football team|Oman]]

==Club career==

=== Early life and career ===
Manaf was born in [[Tikrit]], in the [[Saladin Governorate]]. His father died when Younis was 8 years old, and he was raised by his mother and older brother.<ref>{{cite web |title=الشرقية تزور منزل لاعب المنتخب الوطني العراقي مناف يونس | website=[[YouTube]] | date=25 January 2023 |url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4iQS3BIKE6g |access-date=24 November 2024|trans-title=Al Sharqiya visits the home of the Iraqi national team player, Manaf Younis}}</ref> He started his career in  [[Salahaddin SC]], where he impressed with his strength and aerial ability, which led to him often being deployed as striker. He made his debut in the first round of the [[2016–17 Iraq FA Cup]], scoring after 46 seconds against [[Al-Mohandessin SC]]. He spent two and a half seasons with his hometown club, before moving to Al-Karkh

=== Al-Karkh ===

On January 23, 2019, [[Al-Karkh SC]] announced the signing of Manaf Younis.<ref>{{cite web |title=في خطوة لتعزيز صفوف فريق كرة القدم وفريق كرة السلة في نادي الكرخ.. ادارة النادي تتعاقد مع لاعب نادي صلاح الدين الشاب ( مناف يونس ) والذي يلعب بمركز قلب الدفاع.. وكذلك تم التعاقد مع المحترف الامريكي ( فريمن) القادم من كندا.. التوفيق للنجمين في قادم الايام ويكونوا اضافة متميزة للنادي. |url=https://www.facebook.com/photo?fbid=802459530099855&set=pcb.802459556766519 |website=Facebook |publisher=Al-Karkh media |access-date=24 November 2024}}</ref> He was part of the team as the club finished an impressive 6th position in the league in his first season. In March 2020 Manaf signed for [[Al-Shorta SC|Al-Shorta]] on loan until the end of the season.,<ref>{{cite news|url=https://ar-ar.facebook.com/2140049196318712/posts/2670714976585462/|title=مناف يونس|date=9 March 2020|publisher=AlShortaNews|language=Arabic|accessdate=4 December 2021}}</ref> however, that season was abanoded due to the [[COVID-19]] virus.

In December 2020, Younis scored his first goal for Al-Karkh, rescuing a point in his team's 2–2 draw with [[Al-Mina'a SC]].<ref>{{cite web |title=Al-Karkh 2 Al Mina'a 2 |url=https://www.kooora.com/?m=2736362 |access-date=24 November 2024}}</ref>

Younis helped the team win the [[2021–22 Iraq FA Cup]], he started the final as Al-Karkh beat [[Al-Kahrabaa SC|Al-Kahrabaa]] to win their first ever title.<ref>{{cite web |title=الكرخ بطلا لكأس العراق للمرة الأولى في تاريخه | date=16 July 2022 |url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=1156271&o=n1001768 |access-date=24 November 2024}}</ref>

=== Al-Shorta ===
Ahead of the 2022–2023 season, Younis returned to Al-Shorta in a deal worth 360 Million [[Iraqi Dinar]]s.<ref>{{cite web |title=الشرطة يضم مدافع الكرخ مناف يونس باكثر من 350 مليون دينار |url=https://baghdadtoday.news/194073-.html |access-date=24 November 2024}}</ref> He scored a winning goal in December against his former club Al-Karkh, in the 93rd minute to win the match 3–2. Younis played 31 league matches for Al-Shorta in his first season with the club en route to winning the Iraqi league title.

Younis renewed his contract with Al-Shorta ahead of the 2023–2024 season.<ref>{{cite web |title=الشرطة يمدد عقد مدافعه لموسم إضافي | date=20 September 2023 |url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=1270722&pg=1&o=n3160980 |access-date=24 November 2024}}</ref> Younis suffered a hand injury which required surgery in November, during a league match against [[Erbil SC]].<ref>{{cite web |title=عملية ناجحة للاعب العراقي مناف يونس |url=https://www.alkhaleej.ae/2023-11-12/%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%AC%D8%AD%D8%A9-%D9%84%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%B9%D8%A8-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A-%D9%85%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%81-%D9%8A%D9%88%D9%86%D8%B3/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A8%D9%8A/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9 |access-date=24 November 2024}}</ref> Younis missed several matches due to injury, but returned in late September. He was once again a crucial figure in the squad that season, as the club went on to win the league, and the cup with the defender playing in 28 matches throughout the season.

==International career==
In November 2021, Younis was called up to [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]] as part of their [[2021 FIFA Arab Cup]] squad. He made his debut in the starting line-up for the national team in their opening match against [[Oman national football team|Oman]].<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.fifa.com/tournaments/mens/arabcup/arabcup2021/match-center/400175807|title=IRQOMA|date=3 November 2021|publisher=FIFA|language=English|accessdate=3 December 2021}}</ref>

Younis was called up to the Iraqi squad for the [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup]]. January 19, 2023, he scored his first international goal in the stoppage time of extra-time in a 3–2 win over Oman in the final, to earn his country their first title in the competition since 1988.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://gulfnews.com/sport/football/manaf-younis-nets-winner-to-help-iraq-edge-out-oman-3-2-in-gulf-cup-final-1.1674121168894|title=Manaf Younis nets winner to help Iraq edge out Oman 3-2 in Gulf Cup final|publisher=Gulf News|date=19 January 2023}}</ref>

Younis was called up to the [[FIFA World Cup]] qualifying matches against Jordan and Oman. He started the match against Jordan, helping the team to a clean sheet in a 0–0 draw.<ref>{{cite web |title= كاساس يعلن قائمة المنتخب الوطني لمواجهتي الأردن وعُمان|url=https://www.mawazin.net/Details.aspx?jimare=256247 |access-date=24 November 2024|trans-title=Casas announces the national team list for the matches against Jordan and Oman}}</ref>

==Career==
===International goals===
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! No. !! Date !! Venue !! Opponent !! Score !! Result !! Competition
|-
| 1. || 19 January 2023 || [[Basra International Stadium]], [[Basra]], [[Iraq]] || {{fb|OMA}} || align=center|'''3'''–2 || align=center| 3–2<br>{{aet}} || [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup]]
|-
|}

==Honours==
'''Al-Karkh'''
*[[Iraq FA Cup]]: [[2021–22 Iraq FA Cup|2021–22]]

'''Al-Shorta'''
*[[Iraq Stars League]]: [[2022–23 Iraqi Premier League|2022–23]], [[2023–24 Iraq Stars League|2023–24]], [[2024–25 Iraq Stars League|2024–25]]
*[[Iraq FA Cup]]: [[2023–24 Iraq FA Cup|2023–24]]
*[[Iraqi Super Cup]]: [[2022 Iraqi Super Cup|2022]]

'''Iraq'''
*[[Arabian Gulf Cup]]: [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup|2023]]

==References==
{{Reflist}}

{{Iraq squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Younis, Manaf}}
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:1996 births]]
[[Category:Iraqi men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football central defenders]]
[[Category:Al-Shorta SC players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]