{{short description|Algerian footballer (born 2002)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=December 2022}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Farès Chaïbi
|image = World Cup Qualification Africa Guinea v Algeria 14 (Farès Chaïbi).jpg
|image_size = 
|caption = Chaïbi with [[Algeria national football team|Algeria]] in 2025
|full_name = Farès Chaïbi
|birth_date = {{Birth date and age|2002|11|28|df=y}}
|birth_place = [[Lyon]], France
|height = 1.80m
|position = [[Winger (association football)|Winger]], [[midfielder]]
|currentclub = [[Eintracht Frankfurt]]
|clubnumber = 8
|youthyears1 = 
|youthclubs1 = SC Bron Terraillon<ref name=ft/>
|youthyears2 = 2016–2018
|youthclubs2 = AS Bron<ref name=ft/>
|youthyears3 = 2018–2019
|youthclubs3 = [[FC Lyon]]<ref name=ft/>
|youthyears4 = 2019–2022
|youthclubs4 = [[Toulouse FC|Toulouse]]
|years1 = 2020–2022
|clubs1 = [[Toulouse FC|Toulouse B]]
|caps1 = 20
|goals1 = 4
|years2 = 2022–2023
|clubs2 = [[Toulouse FC|Toulouse]]
|caps2 = 38
|goals2 = 5
|years3 = 2023–
|clubs3 = [[Eintracht Frankfurt]]
|caps3 = 82
|goals3 = 5
|nationalyears1 = 2023–
|nationalteam1 = [[Algeria national football team|Algeria]]
|nationalcaps1 = 29
|nationalgoals1 = 3
|pcupdate = 16 May 2026
|ntupdate = 31 March 2026
}}

'''Farès Chaïbi''' ({{langx|ar|فارس شايبي}}; born 28 November 2002) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Winger (association football)|winger]] or [[midfielder]] for {{German football updater|EinFrank}} club [[Eintracht Frankfurt]]. Born in France, he plays for the [[Algeria national football team|Algeria national team]].

== Club career ==

=== Early career ===
A native of [[Bron]], in the suburbs of [[Lyon]], Chaïbi came through the youth ranks of local teams SC Bron Terraillon and AS Bron.<ref name=ft>[https://www.ladepeche.fr/2022/10/06/reportage-a-bron-sur-les-traces-de-fares-chaibi-revelation-de-la-l1-et-pepite-du-tfc-10717536.php, REPORTAGE. Lyon - TFC : à Bron, sur les traces de Farès Chaïbi, révélation de la Ligue 1 et pépite des Violets]{{Dead link|date=July 2025 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}, ladepeche.fr, 6 October 2022.</ref> At 15, he joined the youth academy of [[FC Lyon]], before joining the [[Toulouse FC|Toulouse]] in 2019, where he signed his first professional contract in February 2022.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Tirat |first=Arthur |date=23 February 2022 |title=TFC : Farès Chaibi signe son premier contrat professionnel |url=https://www.ladepeche.fr/2022/02/23/tfc-fares-chaibi-signe-son-premier-contrat-professionnel-10129271.php |access-date=8 August 2022 |website=[[La Dépêche du Midi|La Dépêche]] |language=fr}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |date=23 February 2022 |title=Farès Chaibi signe son premier contrat professionnel |url=https://www.toulousefc.com/fr/fares-chaibi-signe-son-premier-contrat-professionnel |access-date=8 August 2022 |website=[[Toulouse FC]] |language=fr}}</ref>

=== Toulouse ===
During the following pre-[[2022–23 Toulouse FC season|season]], Chaïbi was one of the standout players of the friendly games, proving to be decisive against the likes of [[Nîmes Olympique|Nîmes]]<ref>{{Cite web |date=2 July 2022 |title=Toulouse, promu en Ligue 1, entame sa préparation avec un succès contre Nîmes (Ligue 2) |url=https://www.lequipe.fr/Football/Actualites/Toulouse-promu-en-ligue-1-entame-sa-preparation-avec-un-succes-contre-nimes-ligue-2/1341639 |access-date=8 August 2022 |website=[[L'Équipe]] |language=fr}}</ref> or the [[Real Sociedad]],<ref>{{Cite web |last=Klein |first=Manon |date=17 July 2022 |title=Le TFC remporte son 4e match de préparation face à la Real Sociedad (1-0) |url=https://www.francebleu.fr/sports/football/le-tfc-remporte-son-4e-match-de-preparation-face-a-la-real-sociedad-1-0-1658024182 |access-date=8 August 2022 |website=[[France Bleu]] |language=fr}}</ref> finishing this preparation with three goals and two assists.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Faugère |first=Théo |date=3 August 2022 |title=TFC : Farès Chaibi, la révélation de l'été |url=https://www.ladepeche.fr/2022/08/03/tfc-fares-chaibi-la-revelation-de-lete-10470991.php |access-date=8 August 2022 |website=La Dépêche |language=fr}}</ref>

He made his professional debut on 7 August 2022, starting for Toulouse in their first game back in [[2022–23 Ligue 1|Ligue 1]], a 1–1 draw against [[OGC Nice|Nice]].<ref>{{Cite web |last=Federici |first=Thomas |date=7 August 2022 |title=Toulouse 1-1 Nice, Ligue 1, résultat et résumé du match |url=https://www.lequipe.fr/Football/match-direct/ligue-1/2022-2023/toulouse-nice-live/538408 |access-date=8 August 2022 |website=[[L'Équipe]] |language=fr}}</ref> On 17 September, Chaibi scored his first goal for the club in a 2–1 defeat against [[Lille OSC|Lille]].{{Citation needed|date=May 2024}}

Chaibi won the first trophy of his career, the [[Coupe de France]] after a 5–1 win over Nantes in [[2023 Coupe de France final|the final]].{{Citation needed|date=May 2024}}

=== Eintracht Frankfurt ===

'''2023-24 season'''

On 30 August 2023, [[Bundesliga]] side [[Eintracht Frankfurt]] announced the signing of Chaïbi on a five-year contract,<ref>{{Cite web |date=30 August 2023 |title=Farès Chaibi wird ein Adlerträger |trans-title=Farès Chaibi becomes an Eagle-Bearer |url=https://profis.eintracht.de/news/fares-chaibi-wird-ein-adlertraeger-152643 |access-date= |publisher=Eintracht Frankfurt |language=de}}</ref> for a reported fee of €17 million.<ref>{{Cite web |date=30 August 2023 |title=Pokal-Spezialist am passenden Ort: Chaibi soll Eintracht-Offensive bereichern |trans-title=Cup specialist in the right place: Chaibi should enrich Eintracht's offensive |url=https://www.kicker.de/pokal-spezialist-am-passenden-ort-chaibi-soll-eintracht-offensive-bereichern-966112/artikel |access-date= |publisher=[[Kicker (magazine)|Kicker]] |language=de-DE}}</ref> Chaibi made his debut for Die Adler as a second-half substitute in a 1–1 draw against [[VfL Bochum|VFL Bochum]] in the [[Bundesliga]].{{Citation needed|date=May 2024}} He scored his first goal for the club in a 3–3 draw against [[Borussia Dortmund]].{{Citation needed|date=May 2024}} On 9 November 2023, Chaibi scored his first European goal in a 1–0 win over [[HJK Helsinki|HJK]] in the [[UEFA Europa Conference League|Conference League]].{{Citation needed|date=May 2024}}

'''2024-25 season'''

This season wasn't a productive season for Chaïbi, who only started 10 Bundesliga matches out of 34 and registered 1 goal and 3 assists. Also, Chaïbi played 10 matches in Frankfurt's [[UEFA Europa League|Europa League]] campaign and failed to register a single goal or assist.

Chaïbi's first goal of the season came against [[Eintracht Braunschweig]] in the [[DFB-Pokal]] by an excellent [[trivela]] assist by Frenchman [[Hugo Ekitike]] to set Chaïbi up for the perfect tap-in. On 1 December 2024, Chaïbi scored his first and only Bundesliga goal of the season in a 4-0 win over [[1. FC Heidenheim|Heidenheim]] at the [[Voith-Arena]] after coming on as a substitute for [[Igor Matanović]].

This season, Chaïbi has also found himself left out of the squad for October's matches against [[Borussia Mönchengladbach]] in the DFB-Pokal and [[VfL Bochum]] in the Bundesliga, due to a costly mistake in a match against [[1. FC Union Berlin|Union Berlin]], which gifted the capital city side the goal to equalise in a 1-1 draw. This mistake also resulted in his manager [[Dino Toppmöller]] to criticise his "body language" and compare him to ex [[Arsenal F.C.|Arsenal]], [[Real Madrid CF|Real Madrid]] and [[Germany national football team|Germany]] footballer [[Mesut Özil]].

During the crucial final matches for Frankfurt, where they needed to get results to qualify for the [[UEFA Champions League|Champions League]], Chaïbi contributed two crucial assists for [[Michy Batshuayi]] against [[FC St. Pauli|St. Pauli]] to seal an important point in a 2-2 draw and then an assist to [[Ansgar Knauff]] in a 3-1 win at [[SC Freiburg|Freiburg]] to ensure that the club qualified for next season's competition.

'''2025-26 season'''

This season has been the best in his career so far for the Algerian midfielder, who has redeemed himself from an unproductive previous season, as he's got 3 goals and 10 assists in all competitions. This included 2 goals and 9 assists in the Bundesliga and 1 goal and 1 assist in Frankfurt's disappointing [[2025–26 UEFA Champions League|Champions League]] campaign, as the German club only picked up 4 points out of a possible 24, which included 1 win, 1 draw and 6 defeats.

On 18 September 2025, Chaïbi made his [[UEFA Champions League|Champions League]] debut against Turkish [[Süper Lig]] club [[Galatasaray S.K. (football)|Galatasaray]], and assisted [[Jonathan Burkardt]]'s goal from a long-range free kick, as Frankfurt won 5-1 on the night. Chaïbi scored his first Champions League goal on matchday 7, against Azerbaijani team [[Qarabağ FK|Qarabağ]] from a penalty, which was also the first penalty goal of his career. Despite Chaïbi's penalty goal to put Frankfurt 2-1 up, Frankfurt ended up losing the match 3-2, which also sealed their elimination from  the competition with a game to spare.

==International career==
Chaïbi was born in France and holds both French and Algerian nationalities.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Fares CHAIBI |url=https://www.unfp.org/joueur/fares-chaibi-24564/ |access-date=2023-09-28 |website=unfp.org}}</ref> He was called up to a training camp for the [[Algeria national under-20 football team|Algeria U20]]s in October 2020.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://lagazettedufennec.com/selection-u20-fin-du-premier-stage-des-bi-nationaux-bientot-en-renfort/|title=Sélection U20 : Fin du premier stage, des bi-nationaux bientôt en renfort ?|first=Saïd|last=Benhammadi|date=12 October 2020}}</ref> In the March 2023 international break, the [[French Football Federation]] showed interest for him to represent their national team, but Chaïbi refused the call up and accepted [[Algeria national football team|Algeria]]'s call up instead, as he commited to their national team. On 23 March 2023, he debuted with Algeria in a 2–1 [[2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualification]] win over [[Niger national football team|Niger]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://fennecfootball.com/injustement-prive-de-deux-buts-face-au-niger-fares-chaibi-contre-attaque/|title=Injustement privé de deux buts : Chaibi contre attaque !|first=Sidahmed|last=Debbouz|date=27 March 2023}}</ref>

In December 2023, he was named in Algeria's squad for the [[2023 Africa Cup of Nations]].,<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.algerie-focus.com/can-2024-lalgerie-devoile-sa-liste-officielle-qui-sont-les-fennecs-prets-a-conquerir-lafrique/|title=CAN 2024 : L'Algérie Dévoile sa Liste Officielle – Qui Sont les Fennecs Prêts à Conquérir l'Afrique ?|language=French|date=30 December 2023|access-date=12 January 2024|publisher=Algérie-Focus}}</ref> where he played 2 matches in Algeria's disappointing AFCON campaign, where they were eliminated in the group stage and finished bottom with 0 wins. In the opening match of the tournament against [[Angola national football team|Angola]], Chaïbi picked up the man of the match award in a 1-1 draw. Despite this, Chaïbi ended up being benched for the next match against [[Burkina Faso national football team|Burkina Faso]] and came on as a second-half substitute, as Algeria clinched a 2-2 draw, thanks to a stoppage-time equaliser from [[Baghdad Bounedjah]]. In the final group stage match against [[Mauritania national football team|Mauritania]], the Frankfurt midfielder was on the bench again and remained an unused substitute in a game which sealed Algeria's elimination from the tournament, as they lost 1-0.

== Controversy ==
On 14 May 2023, Chaïbi initially refused to participate in a Ligue 1 match against [[FC Nantes|Nantes]] due to the game being a part of a league-wide campaign against [[homophobia]], with team kits featuring a rainbow-themed decoration.<ref>{{Cite web |last= |first= |title=Toulouse FC's Players, Including Morocco's Aboukhlal, Refuse LGBTQ+ Jerseys |url=https://www.moroccoworldnews.com/2023/05/355445/toulouse-fcs-players-including-moroccos-aboukhlal-refuse-lgbtq-jerseys |access-date=2024-05-24 |website=www.moroccoworldnews.com |date= 14 May 2023|language=en}}</ref> However, Chaïbi ended up being part of the Toulouse squad for the match and came on as a substitute in a 0-0 draw.

==Personal life==
His older brother [[Ilyes Chaïbi]] is also a professional footballer.<ref name=":0">{{Cite web|url=https://www.ladepeche.fr/2022/02/21/football-ligue-2-qui-est-fares-chaibi-le-nouveau-visage-du-tfc-chez-les-pros-10124857.php|title=Football - Ligue 2 : Qui est Farès Chaibi, le nouveau visage du TFC chez les pros?|website=ladepeche.fr}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 16 May 2026}}<ref name="Soccerway">{{soccerway|fares-chaibi/668128|access-date=31 October 2023}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Coupe de France]], [[DFB-Pokal]]}}
!colspan="2"|Europe
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Toulouse FC|Toulouse B]]
|[[2020–21 Championnat National 3|2020–21]]
|[[Championnat National 3]]
|3||1||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||3||1
|-
|[[2021–22 Championnat National 3|2021–22]]
|Championnat National 3
|17||1||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||17||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!20!!2!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!20!!2
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Toulouse FC|Toulouse]]
|[[2022–23 Toulouse FC season|2022–23]]
|[[Ligue 1]]
|36||5||5||3||colspan="2"|—||41||8
|-
|[[2023–24 Toulouse FC season|2023–24]]
|Ligue 1
|2||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||2||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!38!!5!!5!!3!!colspan="2"|—!!43!!8
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Eintracht Frankfurt]]
|[[2023–24 Eintracht Frankfurt season|2023–24]]
|[[Bundesliga]]
|28||2||2||0||5{{efn|name=UECL|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa Conference League]]}}||1||35||3
|-
|[[2024–25 Eintracht Frankfurt season|2024–25]]
|Bundesliga
|26||1||2||1||10{{efn|name=UEL|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa League]]}}||0||38||2
|-
|[[2025–26 Eintracht Frankfurt season|2025–26]]
|Bundesliga
|28||2||2||0||8{{efn|name=UCL|Appearances in [[UEFA Champions League]]}}||1||38||3
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!82!!5!!6!!1!!23!!2!!111!!8
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!140!!12!!11!!4!!23!!2!!174!!18
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 31 March 2026}}<ref>{{NFT player}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center;"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team, year and competition
!rowspan="2"|Team
!rowspan="2"|Year
!colspan="2"|Competitive
!colspan="2"|Friendly
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Algeria national football team|Algeria]]
|2023
|5{{efn|Appearances in [[2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualification]]}}||1||4||1||9||2
|-
|2024
|3{{efn|Appearances in [[2023 Africa Cup of Nations]]}}||0||3||0||6||0
|-
|2025
|8{{efn|Five appearances in [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]], three appearances and one goal in [[2025 Africa Cup of Nations]]}}||1||3||0||11||1
|-
|2026
|2{{efn|Appearances in 2025 Africa Cup of Nations}}||0||1||0||3||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Career total
!18!!2!!11!!1!!29!!3
|}
{{notelist}}

==Honours==
'''Toulouse'''
* [[Coupe de France]]: [[2022–23 Coupe de France|2022–23]]<ref>{{Cite web |last=Mayen |first=Philippe |date=29 April 2023 |title=Ô Toulouse... FC ! |trans-title=O Toulouse...FC!! |url=https://www.fff.fr/article/10181-o-toulouse-fc-.html |access-date=1 May 2023 |website=FFF - Fédération Française de Football |language=fr}}</ref>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* {{LFP Ligue 1}}
* {{UEFA player}}

{{Eintracht Frankfurt squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Algeria squads
| bg = white
| fg = #006633
| bordercolor = #006633
| list1 = 
{{Algeria squad 2023 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{Algeria squad 2025 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{Algeria squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Chaïbi, Farès}}
[[Category:2002 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Lyon]]
[[Category:Algerian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Algeria men's international footballers]]
[[Category:French men's footballers]]
[[Category:French sportspeople of Algerian descent]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Ligue 1 players]]
[[Category:Championnat National 3 players]]
[[Category:Bundesliga players]]
[[Category:Toulouse FC players]]
[[Category:Eintracht Frankfurt players]]
[[Category:2023 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:2025 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:Algerian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:French expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Germany]]
[[Category:Algerian expatriate sportspeople in Germany]]
[[Category:French expatriate sportspeople in Germany]]
[[Category:21st-century French sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century Algerian sportsmen]]