{{short description|South African footballer (born 2004)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=October 2023}}
{{Use South African English|date=October 2023}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Relebohile Mofokeng
| image =
| caption = 
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|2004|10|23|df=y}}
| birth_name = Relebohile Ratomo<ref>{{cite web|url=https://farpost.co.za/2023/08/04/orlando-pirates-star-changes-his-surname/|title=Orlando Pirates star changes his surname|first=Ofhani|last=Munyai|date=4 August 2023|access-date=26 August 2023|website=farpost.co.za}}</ref>
| birth_place = [[Sharpeville]], South Africa
| height = 1.66 m<ref>{{WorldFootball.net|relebohile-ratomo}}</ref>
| currentclub = [[Orlando Pirates F.C.|Orlando Pirates]]
| clubnumber = 38
| position = [[Attacking Midfielder]]/[[Left Wing]]
| youthyears1 = {{0|0000}}–{{0|0000}}
| youthclubs1 = Transnet School of Excellence
| youthyears2 = 2021–2023
| youthclubs2 = [[Orlando Pirates F.C.|Orlando Pirates DDC]]
| years1 = 2023–
| clubs1 = [[Orlando Pirates F.C.|Orlando Pirates]]
| caps1 = 120
| goals1 = 29
| nationalyears1 = 2022–
| nationalteam1 = [[South Africa national under-20 soccer team|South Africa U20]]
| nationalcaps1 = 5
| nationalgoals1 = 2
| nationalyears2 = 2024–
| nationalteam2 = [[South Africa national soccer team|South Africa]]
| nationalcaps2 = 9
| nationalgoals2 = 2
| club-update =
| nationalteam-update = 09 November 2025
}}
'''Relebohile Mofokeng''' (''[[Given name#Name at birth|né]]'' '''Ratomo'''; born 23 October 2004) is a South African professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as an [[midfielder|attacking midfielder]] or [[Winger (association football)|winger]] for [[Orlando Pirates F.C.|Orlando Pirates]] and the [[South Africa national soccer team|South Africa national team]].<ref>https://www.sowetanlive.co.za/sport/soccer/2024-06-03-bucs-hero-mofokeng-vows-to-stay-grounded/</ref><ref>https://www.orlandopiratesfc.com/team/forwards/relebohile-mofokeng/</ref>

==Club career==
Mofokeng progressed through the Transnet School of Excellence, before a transfer arrangement between [[South African Premier Division]] sides [[Mamelodi Sundowns F.C.|Mamelodi Sundowns]] and [[Orlando Pirates F.C.|Orlando Pirates]] was met, with Mofokeng joining Orlando Pirates and teammate [[Siyabonga Mabena]] joining Mamelodi Sundowns.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.goal.com/en-gb/news/mabena-how-orlando-pirates-mamelodi-sundowns-transfer-tug-of-war-over-bafana-bafana-youngster-was-resolved/blt694beacd2ff02228|title=Mabena: How Orlando Pirates-Mamelodi Sundowns transfer tug-of-war over Bafana Bafana youngster was resolved|first=Kiplagat|last=Sang|date=7 December 2022|accessdate=12 June 2023|website=goal.com}}</ref> Mofokeng integrated well into the academy of Orlando Pirates, impressing with the reserve team in the DStv Diski Challenge, and being invited to train with the first team.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.citizen.co.za/sport/soccer/local-soccer/mgosi/pirates-sensational-striker-ratomo-will-not-be-rushed/#:~:text=Orlando%20Pirates%20sensational%20young%20striker,at%20the%20Buccaneers%20has%20revealed.|title=Pirates sensational striker Ratomo will not be rushed|date=13 February 2023|accessdate=12 June 2023|website=citizen.co.za}}</ref>

Having featured on the bench four times, he was given his first start for the club in a DStv Premiership game against [[Royal AM F.C.|Royal AM]] on 3 May 2023. Following a mistake by Royal AM's Mozambiquan player [[Domingues]], Mofokeng's shot deflected off Domingues into the back of the net. However, the goal was given as an own-goal, as the initial shot was not on target.<ref name=goal>{{cite web|url=https://www.goal.com/en-za/news/orlando-pirates-exciting-youngster-ratomo-shines-on-psl-debut/blt90de01bcd1d0c897|title=Orlando Pirates exciting youngster Ratomo shines on PSL debut|first=Michaelson|last=Gumede|date=3 May 2023|accessdate=12 June 2023|website=goal.com}}</ref> In only his second game for the club, he notched a goal and an assist in a 4–0 win against [[AmaZulu F.C.|AmaZulu]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.timeslive.co.za/sport/soccer/2023-05-22-jose-riveiro-pleads-for-patience-for-pirates-17-year-old-sensation-ratomo/|title=Jose Riveiro pleads for patience for Pirates' 17-year-old sensation Ratomo|first=Sithembiso|last=Dindi|date=22 May 2023|accessdate=12 June 2023|website=timeslive.co.za}}</ref> In the [[2025 Carling Knockout Cup]], he scored the winning goal in a 1–0 win against Marumo Gallants in extra time to hand the Buccaneers their second trophy of the season. According to Opta Jabu, Mofokeng is the youngest player in PSL history to score in all three domestic cup finals.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2025-12-06 |title=Carling Knockout: Relebohile Mofokeng delivers dramatic winner as Orlando Pirates complete cup double after dashing Marumo Gallants' dream of maiden silverware {{!}} Goal.com South Africa |url=https://www.goal.com/en-za/lists/carling-knockout-relebohile-mofokeng-delivers-dramatic-winner-as-orlando-pirates-complete-cup-double-after-dashing-marumo-gallants-dream-of-maiden-silverware/blt5d1385bb2c5bb971 |access-date=2025-12-06 |website=www.goal.com |language=en-ZA}}</ref> On the 22nd of March, he scored his first career hatrick in a 6 - 0 win vs TS Galaxy.

==International career==
===Youth===
Mofokeng represented South Africa at the [[2022 COSAFA U-20 Cup]], scoring twice in five appearances.<ref name=goal/>

===Senior===
He received his first senior national team call-up for the [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – CAF Group C|2026 FIFA World Cup qualifiers]] to be played in June 2024 against [[Nigerian Football Association|Nigeria]] and [[Zimbabwe national football team|Zimbabwe]]. Mofokeng made his debut against the latter on 11 June 2024 at the [[Free State Stadium]]. He substituted [[Oswin Appollis]] in added time, as South Africa won 3–1.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=ESPN|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/687185/|title=South Africa v Zimbabwe game report|date=11 June 2024}}</ref> Mofokeng scored his first goal for South Africa against Lesotho in the 2026 FIFA World Cup qualifiers.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Reporter |first=KO Staff |title=Broos has his say on Mofokeng's first Bafana goal |url=https://www.snl24.com/kickoff/sanews/bafana/broos-on-mofokengs-goal-20250324 |access-date=2025-04-02 |website=Kickoff |language=en-US}}</ref>

On 1 December 2025, Mofokeng was called up to the South Africa squad for the [[2025 Africa Cup of Nations]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.cafonline.com/afcon2025/news/totalenergies-afcon-morocco-2025-fever-rises-as-broos-become-first-coach-to-unveil-final-squad/|title=TotalEnergies AFCON Morocco 2025 fever rises as Broos become first coach to unveil final squad|publisher=[[Confederation of African Football]]|date=1 December 2025|access-date=12 December 2025}}</ref>

==Personal life==
At the time of his move to the Orlando Pirates, he was using his mother's last name, Ratomo, as his parents were not yet married.<ref name=snl>{{cite web|url=https://www.snl24.com/soccerladuma/local/premiership/orlando-pirates/orlando-pirates-youngster-set-for-name-change-20230516|title=Pirates Teen Sensation To Undergo Name Change|first=Delmain|last=Faver|date=16 May 2023|accessdate=12 June 2023|website=snl24.com}}</ref> Three weeks after his registration with the club, he changed his last name legally to Mofokeng - the last name of his father, and former footballer, Sechaba Mofokeng - and this would be his official name ahead of the 2023–24 season.<ref name=snl/> This name change was confirmed by the Orlando Pirates on 4 August 2023.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.orlandopiratesfc.com/new-season-new-numbers.html|title=New season, new numbers|date=4 August 2023|access-date=26 August 2023|website=orlandopiratesfc.com}}</ref>

==Career statistics==

===Club===
{{Updated|09 Dec 2025|<ref>{{Soccerway|relebohile-ratomo/901350}}</ref>}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
|-
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National Cup
!colspan="2"|League Cup
!colspan="2"|Continental
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total 
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
| rowspan="4" |[[Orlando Pirates F.C.|Orlando Pirates]]
|[[2022–23 South African Premier Division|2022–23]]
|rowspan="4" |[[South African Premier Division|SA Premier Division]]
|2||1||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||2||1
|-
|[[2023–24 South African Premier Division|2023–24]]
|26||3||5||2||1||0||3||0||3||0||38||5
|-
|[[2024-25 South African Premier Division|2024–25]]
|26
|5
|5
|0
|1
|0
|13
|5
|4
|2
|49
|12
|-
|2025-26
|27
|10
|1
|0
|3
|1
|1
|0
|4
|0
|28
|8
|-
! colspan="3" |Career total
!73!!16!!11!!2!!5!!1!!17!!5!!11!!2!!117!!26
|}

=== International ===
: ''As of match played'' ''25 March 2025''

{| class="wikitable"
|+Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team
!Year
!Apps
!Goals
|-
| rowspan="2" |South Africa
|2024
|4
|0
|-
|2025
|2
|1
|-
! colspan="2" |Total
!6
!1
|}
''Scores and results list'' ''South Africa's goal tally first.''
{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+List of international goals scored by Mofokeng
!No.
!Date
!Venue
!Opponent
!Score
!Result
!Competition
|-
|1
|21 March 2025
|[[Peter Mokaba Stadium]], [[South Africa]]
|{{Fb|Lesotho}}
|1–0
|2-0
|[[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification (CAF)]]
|}

== Honours ==
'''Orlando Pirates'''
*[[South African Premiership]]: 2025–26
*[[Nedbank Cup]]: 2022-24, 2023–24
*[[MTN 8]]: 2023–24, 2024–25, 2025–26
*[[Carling Knockout Cup]]: 2025–26
'''Individual'''

* [[South African Premiership]] Young Player of the Season: 2024,2025 <ref>{{Cite web |date=2017-08-23 |title=Maswanganyi and Williams dominate 2023/24 PSL Awards |url=https://www.psl.co.za/news/article/5607354-maswanganyi-and-williams-dominate-202 |access-date=2024-09-17 |website=www.psl.co.za}}</ref>
* [[Nedbank Cup]] Most Promising Player of the Tournament: 2024 <ref>{{Cite web |date=2024-06-23 |title=Orlando Pirates stars Sipho Chaine, Relebohile Mofokeng and Patrick Maswangani stand out in PSL Awards {{!}} Goal.com South Africa |url=https://www.goal.com/en-za/lists/orlando-pirates-stars-sipho-chaine-relebohile-mofokeng-and-patrick-maswangani-stand-out-in-psl-awards/bltdf733e8cbce7768a#csaec8aea50b7c8601 |access-date=2024-09-17 |website=www.goal.com |language=en-ZA}}</ref>

==References==
{{reflist}}

{{Orlando Pirates F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = South Africa squads
| bg        = #FFB81C
| fg        = #007749
| bordercolor = #007749
| list =
{{South Africa squad 2025 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{South Africa squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Mofokeng, Relebohile}}
[[Category:2004 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Soccer players from Gauteng]]
[[Category:South African people of Lesotho descent]]
[[Category:South African men's soccer players]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:South African Premier Division players]]
[[Category:Orlando Pirates F.C. players]]
[[Category:South Africa men's youth international soccer players]]
[[Category:South Africa men's international soccer players]]
[[Category:2025 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:21st-century South African sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]