{{short description|Tunisian footballer (born 2002)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=March 2022}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Sebastian Tounekti
| fullname = 
| image = 
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|2002|7|13|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Tromsø (city)|Tromsø]], Norway
| height = 1.83 m
| currentclub = [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]]
| clubnumber = 23
| position = [[Winger (association football)|Winger]]
| youthyears1 = –2018
| youthclubs1 = [[Tromsdalen UIL|Tromsdalen]]
| years1 = 2018–2019
| clubs1 = [[Tromsdalen UIL|Tromsdalen]]
| caps1 = 12
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2020–2022
| clubs2 = [[FK Bodø/Glimt|Bodø/Glimt]]
| caps2 = 14
| goals2 = 1
| years3 = 2021–2022
| clubs3 = → [[FC Groningen|Groningen]] (loan)
| caps3 = 0
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2022–2025
| clubs4 = [[FK Haugesund|Haugesund]]
| caps4 = 41
| goals4 = 4
| years5 = 2023
| clubs5 = → [[Ranheim Fotball|Ranheim]] (loan)
| caps5 = 5
| goals5 = 1
| years6 = 2025
| clubs6 = [[Hammarby Fotboll|Hammarby IF]]
| caps6 = 21
| goals6 = 3
| years7 = 2025–
| clubs7 = [[Celtic FC|Celtic]]
| caps7 = 27
| goals7 = 2
| nationalyears1 = 2017
| nationalteam1 = [[Norway national under-15 football team|Norway U15]]
| nationalcaps1 = 4
| nationalgoals1 = 1
| nationalyears2 = 2019
| nationalteam2 = [[Norway national under-17 football team|Norway U17]]
| nationalcaps2 = 5
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2020
| nationalteam3 = [[Norway national under-19 football team|Norway U19]]
| nationalcaps3 = 3
| nationalgoals3 = 1
| nationalyears4 = 2021–
| nationalteam4 = [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]]
| nationalcaps4 = 11
| nationalgoals4 = 1
| club-update = 19:55, 16 May 2026 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 1 June 2026 
}}
'''Sebastian Tounekti''' (born 13 July 2002) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[winger (association football)|winger]] for [[Scottish Premiership]] club [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]]. Born in Norway, he plays for the [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia national team]].

==Club career==

=== Tromsdalen ===
Tounekti was born in [[Tromsø (city)|Tromsø]].<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.altomfotball.no/element.do?cmd=player&personId=347029&tournamentId=1&seasonId=342&teamId=307&useFullUrl=false |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200617043212/http://www.altomfotball.no/element.do?cmd=player&personId=347029&tournamentId=1&seasonId=342&teamId=307&useFullUrl=false |url-status=dead |archive-date=17 June 2020 |title=Sebastian Tounekti |work=altomfotball.no |publisher=TV2 |accessdate=17 June 2020}}</ref> He made his senior debut for [[Tromsdalen UIL|Tromsdalen]] on 30 September 2018 against [[Ullensaker/Kisa IL|Ullensaker/Kisa]]; Tromsdalen won 3–0.<ref name="nff">{{NFF|2748925}}</ref>

=== Bodø/Glimt===
He made his senior debut for [[FK Bodø/Glimt|Bodø/Glimt]] on 16 June 2020 against [[Viking FK|Viking]]; Bodø/Glimt won 4–2. He scored his first and only goal in October 2020 against Molde.<ref name=nff/> Tounekti and [[George Lewis (footballer, born 2000)|George Lewis]] were both players at Tromsdalen who were discovered by clubs other than Tromsdalen's larger neighbour [[Tromsø IL]], the failure to pick them up being lamented by Tromsø fans. Tounekti was part of the Bodø/Glimt squad that won the Eliteserien title in 2020. He also appeared as a substitute in both legs of the UEFA Champions League qualifying round against Legia Warsaw.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.aftenposten.no/sport/fotball/i/dOXyl1/de-seks-stoerste-talentene-som-glapp-for-til|title=De seks største talentene som glapp for TIL|date=3 June 2020|work=Aftenposten|language=no|access-date=30 October 2021}}</ref>

=== Groningen ===
In the end of the transfer window, the 19-year-old joined Dutch Eredivisie club FC Groningen on loan from Bodø/Glimt for the remainder of the 2021–22 season.<ref>https://www.nrk.no/tromsogfinnmark/tounekti-leies-ut-til-fc-groningen-1.15630647</ref>

=== Haugesund ===
On 30 August 2022, Tounekti signed a four-year contract with the Eliteserien club. He had his breakthrough during the 2024 season.<ref>https://www.glimt.no/nyheter/sebastian-tounekti-selges-til-haugesund</ref>

=== Hammarby ===
Tounekti moved to Sweden on 9 February 2025, joining [[Allsvenskan]] side [[Hammarby Fotboll]] on a five-year contract.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Hammarby värvar Sebastian Tounekti |url=https://www.hammarbyfotboll.se/nyheter/hammarby-vaervar-sebastian-tounekti |access-date=2025-09-02 |website=Hammarby Fotboll}}</ref>

=== Celtic ===
Tounetki joined [[Scottish Premiership]] side [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]] on 1 September 2025 on a five-year contract.<ref>{{Cite web |last= |first= |date=2025-09-01 |title=Welcome to Celtic, Sebastian Tounekti |url=https://www.celticfc.com/news/2025/september/01/welcome-to-celtic--/ |access-date=2025-09-02 |website=Celtic FC |language=en}}</ref> He made his debut against [[Kilmarnock F.C.|Kilmarnock]] at [[Rugby Park]] on 14 September 2025. He scored his first goal on the 21 September 2025 in a [[Scottish League Cup]] [[2025-26 Scottish League Cup#Quarter-finals|Quarter final]] 4-0 win against [[Partick Thistle F.C.|Partick Thistle]] at [[Firhill Stadium]].<ref>{{Cite web |last= Dowden |first= Martin |date=2025-09-21 |title=Partick Thistle 4-0 Celtic: Brendan Rodgers' side cruise into last four for Rangers showdown|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/live/c5yg8ygm4p7t |access-date=2026-06-03 |website=[[BBC Sport]] |language=en}}</ref>

==International career==
Tounekti was born in Norway to a Tunisian father and Norwegian mother.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.nettavisen.no/12-95-3424102755|title=Tounekti velger Tunisia – tatt ut på A-landslaget|date=16 March 2021|website=Nettavisen}}</ref> He was a youth international for Norway up until [[Norway national under-19 football team|U19]] level.<ref name=nff/> He was called up to represent the senior [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia national team]] on 19 March 2021.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.kawarji.com/actu-64765-en-la-liste-de-mondher-kebaier-pour-affronter-la-libye-et-la-guinee-equatoriale.html|title=EN : La liste de Mondher Kebaier pour affronter la Libye et la Guinée Equatoriale|website=www.kawarji.com}}</ref> He debuted with Tunisia in a 3–0 [[2022 FIFA World Cup qualification]] win over [[Mauritania national football team|Mauritania]] on 7 October 2021.<ref name="Global Sports Archive 2021">{{cite web | title=Match Report of Tunisia vs Mauritania - 2021-10-07 - WC Qualification | website=Global Sports Archive | date=7 October 2021 | url=https://globalsportsarchive.com/match/soccer/2021-10-07/tunisia-vs-mauritania/2358534/ | access-date=7 October 2021}}</ref>

Tounekti did not receive another call up for four years, returning for an international friendly against [[Morocco national football team|Morocco]] in June 2025. He also played in a World Cup playoff against Equatorial Guinea in September 2025.<ref>{{Cite news|url=https://www.scotsman.com/sport/football/celtic/latest-celtic-news/celtic-star-lands-world-cup-spot-in-dramatic-fashion-as-hamza-igamanes-dream-spell-after-rangers-goes-on-5308367|title=Celtic star lands World Cup spot in dramatic fashion as Igamane's dream spell after Rangers goes on|last=Atkinson|first=Mark|date=8 September 2025|website=The Scotsman}}</ref>

==Personal life==
Tounekti is the cousin of the Norwegian footballer [[Bryan Fiabema]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.aftenposten.no/sport/fotball/i/lEAyGL/sebastian-18-scoret-faa-timer-etter-at-soeskenbarnet-herjet-for-chelsea-jeg-maatte-score-siden-han-leverte-saa-bra|title=Sebastian (18) scoret få timer etter at søskenbarnet herjet for Chelsea: – Jeg måtte score siden han leverte så bra|date=18 October 2020|website=www.aftenposten.no}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 23 May 2026}}<ref name="nff"/><ref>{{soccerway|sebastian-tounekti/544895|access-date=31 March 2025}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup
!colspan="2"|Continental
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Tromsdalen UIL|Tromsdalen]] 
|[[2018 Norwegian First Division|2018]]
|rowspan="2"|[[Norwegian First Division]]
|1||0||0||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||1||0
|-
|[[2019 Norwegian First Division|2019]]
|11||0||1||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||12||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!12!!0!!1!!0!!colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–!!13!!0
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[FK Bodø/Glimt|Bodø/Glimt]]
|[[2020 FK Bodø/Glimt season|2020]]
|rowspan="2"|[[Eliteserien]]
|9||1||colspan="2"|–||1||1||colspan="2"|–||10||2
|-
|[[2021 FK Bodø/Glimt season|2021]]
|5||0||2||0||4||0||colspan="2"|–||11||0 
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!14!!1!!2!!0!!5!!1!!colspan="2"|–!!21!!2
|-
|[[FC Groningen|Groningen]] (loan)
|[[2021–22 FC Groningen season|2021–22]] 
|[[Eredivisie]]
|0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||0||0
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[FK Haugesund|Haugesund]]
|[[2022 Eliteserien|2022]]
|rowspan="3"|Eliteserien
|5||0||0||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||5||0 
|-
|[[2023 Eliteserien|2023]]
|7||0||3||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||10||0 
|-
|[[2024 Eliteserien|2024]]
|29||4||1||0||colspan="2"|–||2||0||32||4
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!41!!4!!4!!0!!colspan="2"|–!!2!!0!!47!!4
|-
|[[Ranheim Fotball|Ranheim]] (loan)
|[[2023 Norwegian First Division|2023]] 
|Norwegian First Division
|5||1||0||0||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||5||1
|-
|[[Hammarby Fotboll|Hammarby IF]]
|[[2025 Hammarby Fotboll season|2025]] 
|[[Allsvenskan]]
|21||3||2||1||4||0||colspan="2"|–||27||4
|-
|[[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]]
|[[2025–26 Celtic F.C. season|2025–26]]
|[[Scottish Premiership]]
|27||2||5||2||10||0||3||1||45||5
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!120!!11!!14!!3!!19!!1!!5!!1!!158!!16
|}

===International===
{{updated|match played 1 June 2026}}<ref name="NFT">{{NFT player|84195|access-date=31 March 2026}}</ref>

{|class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team, and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]]
|2021||1||0
|-
|2025||7||0
|-
|2026||3||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!11!!1
|}

''Scores and results list Tunisia's goal tally first.''<ref name="NFT"/>
{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Sebastian Tounekti
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
| align="center"|1 || 28 March 2026 || [[BMO Field]], [[Toronto]], Canada || {{fb|HAI}} || align="center"|'''1'''–0 || align="center"|1–0 || [[Exhibition game#Association football|Friendly]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Bodø/Glimt'''
*[[Eliteserien]]: [[2020 Eliteserien|2020]], [[2021 Eliteserien|2021]]

'''Celtic'''
*[[Scottish Premiership]]: [[2025–26 Scottish Premiership|2025–26]]<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.theguardian.com/football/2026/may/16/celtic-stun-hearts-at-the-last-in-dramatic-final-day-shootout-to-retain-scottish-title|title=Celtic stun Hearts at the last in dramatic final-day shootout to retain Scottish title|first=Guardian|last=sport|work=The Guardian |date=16 May 2026}}</ref>
*[[Scottish Cup]]: [[2025–26 Scottish Cup|2025–26]]

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
*{{soccerbase|129857}}

{{Celtic F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title=  Tunisia squads
| bg = #E70013
| fg = white
| bordercolor = white
| list1 =
{{Tunisia squad 2025 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{Tunisia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Tounekti, Sebastian}}
[[Category:2002 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Tunisian people of Norwegian descent]]
[[Category:Norwegian people of Tunisian descent]]
[[Category:Footballers from Tromsø]]
[[Category:Tunisian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Norwegian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Tromsdalen UIL players]]
[[Category:FK Bodø/Glimt players]]
[[Category:FC Groningen players]]
[[Category:FK Haugesund players]]
[[Category:Ranheim Fotball players]]
[[Category:Hammarby Fotboll players]]
[[Category:Celtic F.C. players]]
[[Category:Norwegian First Division players]]
[[Category:Eliteserien players]]
[[Category:Allsvenskan players]]
[[Category:Scottish Professional Football League players]]
[[Category:Norway men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Tunisia men's international footballers]]
[[Category:2025 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:Norwegian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Norwegian expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Norwegian expatriate sportspeople in Sweden]]
[[Category:Norwegian expatriate sportspeople in Scotland]]
[[Category:Tunisian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Tunisian expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Tunisian expatriate sportspeople in Sweden]]
[[Category:Tunisian expatriate sportspeople in Scotland]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Sweden]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland]]
[[Category:21st-century Norwegian sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century Tunisian sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]