{{Short description|Scottish footballer (born 1991)}}
{{Use British English|date=September 2015}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2019}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Grant Hanley
| image = Grant Hanley 2018.jpg
| caption = Hanley playing for [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]] in 2018
| full_name = Grant Campbell Hanley<ref name=Hugman>{{Hugman|23322|access-date=28 February 2016}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|1991|11|20|df=y}}<ref name=Hugman/>
| birth_place = [[Dumfries]], Scotland
| height = {{convert|1.87|m|order=flip}}<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.canaries.co.uk/player/grant-hanley |title=Grant Hanley |access-date=24 August 2022 |publisher=Norwich City F.C.}}</ref>
| position = [[Defender (association football)#Centre-back|Centre-back]]
| currentclub = [[Hibernian F.C.|Hibernian]]
| clubnumber = 4
| youthyears1 = 
| youthclubs1 = [[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]]
| youthyears2 = 2004–2006
| youthclubs2 = [[Crewe Alexandra F.C.|Crewe Alexandra]]
| youthyears3 = 2006–2008
| youthclubs3 = [[Rangers F.C. Under-20s and Academy|Rangers]]
| youthyears4 = 2008–2010
| youthclubs4 = [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]]
| years1 = 2010–2016
| clubs1 = [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]]
| caps1 = 183
| goals1 = 8
| years2 = 2016–2017
| clubs2 = [[Newcastle United F.C.|Newcastle United]]
| caps2 = 10
| goals2 = 1
| years3 = 2017–2025
| clubs3 = [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]]
| caps3 = 181
| goals3 = 5
| years4 = 2025
| clubs4 = [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]]
| caps4 = 14
| goals4 = 0
| years5 = 2025–
| clubs5 = [[Hibernian F.C.|Hibernian]]
| caps5 = 24
| goals5 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2010–2011
| nationalteam1 = [[Scotland national under-19 football team|Scotland U19]]
| nationalcaps1 = 7
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2010
| nationalteam2 = [[Scotland national under-21 football team|Scotland U21]]
| nationalcaps2 = 1
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2011–
| nationalteam3 = [[Scotland national football team|Scotland]]
| nationalcaps3 = 68
| nationalgoals3 = 2
| club-update = 23:54, 20 May 2026 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 23:58, 7 June 2026 (UTC)
}}

'''Grant Campbell Hanley''' (born 20 November 1991) is a Scottish professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[centre-back]] for {{Scottish football updater|Hibernia}} club [[Hibernian F.C.|Hibernian]] and the [[Scotland national football team|Scotland national team]].

Across his club career, Hanley has previously played for [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]], [[Newcastle United F.C.|Newcastle United]], [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]], and [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]]. He has won the [[EFL Championship]] three times, once with Newcastle and twice with Norwich. He was named in the [[2020–21 EFL Championship|2020–21]] EFL Championship Team of the Season.

He made his full international debut for [[Scotland national football team|Scotland]] in 2011, and has won over 60 [[Cap (sport)|caps]] in his career. He also appeared at the [[UEFA Euro 2020|Euro 2020]] and [[UEFA Euro 2024|Euro 2024]] championships.

==Early years==
Hanley was born in [[Dumfries]].<ref name=Hugman/> He was involved at youth level with local club [[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]], [[Crewe Alexandra F.C.|Crewe Alexandra]] and [[Rangers F.C.|Rangers]] before he joined Blackburn Rovers as a 16-year-old in 2008.<ref>[http://www.scottishfootballleague.com/news/article/muirheads-career-built-on-solid-bricks/ Muirhead's career built on solid bricks] {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120616125249/http://www.scottishfootballleague.com/news/article/muirheads-career-built-on-solid-bricks/ |date=16 June 2012 }} Scottish Football League, 14 January 2011</ref><ref name=NewCH>{{cite news |url=http://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/football/scotland/2010/05/24/i-can-be-the-new-colin-hendry-for-scotland-blackburn-vows-scots-under-19-skipper-grant-hanley-86908-22281189/ |title=I can be the new Colin Hendry for Scotland & Blackburn, vows Scots under 19 skipper Grant Hanley |newspaper=Daily Record |date=24 May 2010 |accessdate=7 August 2025 |first=Scott |last=McDermott}}</ref>

==Club career==
===Blackburn Rovers===
At Rovers, Hanley was [[Captain (association football)|captain]] of the under-18 team.<ref name=NewCH/> He made his [[Premier League]] debut for Rovers in a 1–0 win at Aston Villa on 9 May 2010.<ref name=BRProf>{{cite web |title=Grant Hanley first team profile |url=http://www.rovers.co.uk/page/ProfilesDetail/0,,10303~51151,00.html |publisher=Blackburn Rovers F.C. |access-date=10 May 2010 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120505200558/http://www.rovers.co.uk/page/ProfilesDetail/0%2C%2C10303~51151%2C00.html |archive-date=5 May 2012 |url-status=dead }}</ref><ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.skysports.com/football/news/11676/6143524/rovers-rule-at-villa-park |title=Rovers rule at Villa Park |website=Sky Sports |date=9 May 2010 |access-date=9 May 2010}}</ref> Hanley committed his future when he signed a new five-year deal with Blackburn on 21 July 2010.<ref>[http://www.lancashiretelegraph.co.uk/sport/8284970.Blackburn_Rovers_defender_Hanley_pens_five_year_contract/ Blackburn Rovers defender Hanley pens five-year contract] ''Lancashire Telegraph'', 22 July 2010</ref>

Hanley made his first Premier League appearance of season 2010–11 as a 67th-minute substitute in a 1–1 draw at home to [[West Ham United F.C.|West Ham United]].{{citation needed|date=February 2016}} He made his [[FA Cup]] debut on 8 January 2011, against [[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]] in a 1–0 victory at Ewood Park.<ref>[https://www.theguardian.com/football/match/2011/jan/08/blackburn-v-qpr Blackburn Rovers v QPR Match facts] ''The Guardian'', 8 January 2011</ref> On 5 March 2011, Hanley scored his first goal for Rovers in a 3–2 defeat against [[Fulham F.C.|Fulham]] at [[Craven Cottage]].<ref>[https://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/eng_prem/9411020.stm Fulham 3–2 Blackburn] BBC Sport, 5 March 2011</ref> That was the last of his nine Blackburn first team appearances that season although he was to make his international debut at the end of the season.<ref name=qosintl/> On 31 December 2011, Hanley started and scored the winning goal in a 3–2 win against local rivals [[Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United]] at [[Old Trafford]].<ref>[https://archive.today/20120712020411/http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/16373420.stm Match winner Grant Hanley hails Blackburn Rovers youth] ''BBC Sport'', 31 December 2011</ref><ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20120505123442/http://football.uk.reuters.com/leagues/premiership/news/2011/12/31/489C36A6-33D7-11E1-AC36-1AE57F33923B.php Blackburn stun United, Spurs and Chelsea slip up] Reuters, 31 December 2011</ref> This win lifted Blackburn off the bottom of the table.<ref>[https://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/eng_prem/16324998.stm Man Utd 2–3 Blackburn] ''BBC Sport'', 31 December 2011</ref> On 14 April 2012, in a Premier League fixture against [[Swansea City A.F.C.|Swansea City]] at the [[Liberty Stadium]], he suffered an ankle ligament injury.{{citation needed|date=February 2016}} Hanley made 28 appearances and scored one goal in all competitions for Rovers, but the club was relegated into the [[Football League Championship|Championship]].<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.premierleague.com/en-gb/matchday/league-table.html |title=Premier League Table |publisher=Premier League |access-date=30 August 2017 |archive-date=16 May 2016 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160516065708/http://www.premierleague.com/en-gb/matchday/league-table.html |url-status=dead }}</ref>

In the beginning of the [[2012–13 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2012–13 season]], Hanley maintained his first team spot in defense and formed a partnership with teammate [[Scott Dann]]. At the end of the season, he signed a new five-year contract with the club.<ref>{{cite news |title=Transfer news: Blackburn give Grant Hanley long-term contract at Ewood Park |url=http://www1.skysports.com/football/news/12691/8754287/Transfer-news-Blackburn-give-Grant-Hanley-long-term-contract-at-Ewood-Park |website=Sky Sports |date=4 June 2013 |access-date=16 June 2013}}</ref>

After Dann left for [[Crystal Palace F.C.|Crystal Palace]] in January 2014, Hanley was appointed as the new [[Captain (association football)|captain]] of the club.<ref>{{cite web |title=Delighted for the captain |url=http://www.rovers.co.uk/news/article/delighted-for-the-captain-1336772.aspx |publisher=Blackburn Rovers F.C. |date=3 February 2014 |access-date=25 February 2014}}</ref>

===Newcastle United===
On 21 July 2016, Hanley signed for newly relegated Championship club [[Newcastle United F.C.|Newcastle United]] on a five-year contract for an undisclosed fee.<ref>{{cite news |title=Grant Hanley: Newcastle United sign Blackburn Rovers captain |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/36857862 |website=BBC Sport |date=21 July 2016 |access-date=21 July 2016}}</ref> He was handed the number 5 shirt, previously worn by [[Georginio Wijnaldum]]. He scored his first goal for the club in the 79th minute in a 6–0 win versus [[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]] at [[Loftus Road]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/37282510 |title=Queens Park Rangers 0-6 Newcastle United |date=14 September 2016 |website=BBC Sport}}</ref>

===Norwich City===
====2017–18====
On 30 August 2017, Hanley joined [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]] on a four-year deal for an undisclosed fee.<ref>{{cite news|title=Grant Hanley joins Norwich City|url=https://www.canaries.co.uk/News/2017/august/grant-hanley-joins-norwich-city/|publisher=Norwich City F.C.|date=30 August 2017}}</ref> He made his debut on 9 September 2017, coming on as a substitute in a 1–0 win over [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]] at [[Carrow Road]].<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/41132799 |title=Norwich City 1-0 Birmingham City |date=9 September 2017 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=9 September 2017 |language=en-GB}}</ref> Although he had been something of an emergency buy, with Norwich having started the season with a number of injuries and playing inexperienced centre-backs, Hanley soon became a regular in the team, often being deployed as one of three centre halves alongside [[Timm Klose]] and [[Christoph Zimmermann]]. He ultimately made 32 league appearances for Norwich during the 2017–18 season, plus two in the FA Cup. One of his most memorable contributions came in the derby game against [[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]] on 18 February. Ipswich had gone 1–0 up in the 89th minute and seemed set for a first win over Norwich in nine years. However, deep into added time, Hanley chased a ball to the byline and crossed it back into the goal area, allowing Klose to head it home for an equaliser.<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/43020998 |title=Norwich City 1-1 Ipswich Town |date=18 February 2018 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=15 January 2019 }}</ref> The following month, on 17 March, Hanley scored his first goal for Norwich, the second in a 3–2 win over [[Reading F.C.|Reading]].<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/43353592 |title=Norwich City 3-2 Reading |date=17 March 2018 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=15 January 2019 }}</ref>

====2018–19====
At the beginning of the 2018–19 season, with [[Russell Martin (footballer)|Russell Martin]] leaving the club, Hanley was appointed Norwich's new club captain<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.canaries.co.uk/News/2018/august/grant-hanley-birmingham/ |title=Grant Hanley: Being named captain is a huge honour |date=1 August 2018 |publisher=Norwich City F.C. |access-date=6 May 2019 }}</ref> ahead of [[Ivo Pinto]], who had deputised for Martin for much of the previous season. He played in Norwich's opening six league games, getting his second goal for the club in a 4–3 defeat against [[West Bromwich Albion F.C.|West Bromwich Albion]];<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/45066581 |title=Norwich City 3-4 West Bromwich Albion: Jay Rodriguez efforts please Baggies boss |date=11 August 2018 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=6 May 2019 }}</ref> however, he was then injured in training.<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/45522509 |title=Grant Hanley: Norwich defender out for six weeks with quad injury |date=14 September 2018 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=6 May 2019 }}</ref> During his absence, Klose and Zimmermann established themselves at centre-back, with [[Ben Godfrey]] also becoming a regular choice, and Hanley was restricted to a few appearances as substitute on his return. When he finally started a game, an [[FA Cup]] tie against [[Portsmouth F.C.|Portsmouth]], he was sent off in the first fifteen minutes for a professional foul on [[Ronan Curtis]] and Norwich went on to lose 1–0.<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/46707005 |title=Norwich City 0-1 Portsmouth in FA Cup third round |date=5 January 2019 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=6 May 2019 }}</ref> Despite his lack of game time, Hanley remained club captain as Norwich gained promotion to the [[Premier League]]. In the final game of the season, as Norwich defeated [[Aston Villa F.C.|Aston Villa]] 2–1, winning the [[EFL Championship|Championship]] title, Hanley was brought on as an 89th minute substitute for [[Onel Hernandez]]<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/48081773 |title=Aston Villa 1-2 Norwich City: Canaries win to seal Championship title |date=5 May 2019 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=6 May 2019 }}</ref> and lifted the Championship trophy alongside team captain Zimmermann.<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/live/football/47713270 |title=Relieve the final day of the Championship season as it happened |date=5 May 2019 |website=BBC Sport|access-date=6 May 2019 }}</ref><ref name=trophymedal19>{{Cite news |url=https://bleacherreport.com/articles/2834759-championship-table-2019-football-results-final-standings-and-play-off-fixtures |title=Championship Table 2019: Football Results, Final Standings and Play-Off Fixtures |website=Bleacher Report |date=5 May 2019 |access-date=6 May 2019}}</ref>

====2019–20====
Hanley scored an [[own goal]] in a 4–1 defeat against [[Liverpool F.C.|Liverpool]] on 9 August, which was the first goal of the [[2019–20 Premier League]] season.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/49201578 |title=Liverpool 4–1 Norwich City |first=Neil |last=Johnston |website=BBC Sport |date=9 August 2019 |access-date=10 August 2019}}</ref> Despite this, he retained his place for the next two Premier League games until he was once more injured in training.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.edp24.co.uk/sport/norwich-city/canaries-timm-klose-grant-hanley-injury-latest-1-6244813 |title=Klose set for long layoff; Hanley also out for West Ham |first=Paddy|last=Davit|website=EDP|date=30 August 2019 |access-date=26 July 2020}}</ref> He would later admit he had been injured at the start of the season. Norwich suffered several injuries at centre-back throughout the season, with midfielders [[Alexander Tettey]] and [[Ibrahim Amadou]] both being deployed as makeshift centre-halves at various points. As a result, despite not being an automatic choice, Hanley made 15 appearances in the season's first 29 league games, as well as helping Norwich reach their first FA Cup quarter-final in over 20 years with a goal in a 2–1 win over [[Burnley F.C.|Burnley]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/51208465 |title=Burnley 1–2 Norwich |first=Phil|last=Dawkes|website=bbc.co.uk|date=25 January 2020 |access-date=26 July 2020}}</ref> However, at that stage, the season was suspended because of the [[COVID-19 pandemic]]. When it resumed after three months, Hanley was again injured.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.edp24.co.uk/sport/norwich-city/hanley-injury-blow-for-canaries-1-67043636244813|title=Hanley injury blow for Canaries ahead of restart|first=David|last=Freezer|website=EDP|date=17 June 2020|access-date=26 July 2020}}{{Dead link|date=June 2023 |bot=InternetArchiveBot |fix-attempted=yes }}</ref> He played no further part in the season as Norwich finished bottom of the Premier League and were relegated back to the Championship.

====2020–21====
With the new season starting only two months later, Hanley would again start a season injured.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.pinkun.com/sport/norwich-city/city-skipper-targets-injury-return-1843172 |title=Norwich skipper Hanley keen to lead Championship recovery as he targets injury return|first=David|last=Freezer|website=Pink Un|date=21 July 2020 |access-date=10 May 2021}}</ref> He would make his first appearance of the season on 17 October in Norwich's fifth game, a 2–1 win over [[Rotherham United F.C.|Rotherham United]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/54488894 |title=Rotherham United 1–2 Norwich City|website=BBC Sport|date=17 October 2020 |access-date=10 May 2021}}</ref> However, from then on, he would not miss a game, making 42 league appearances and 2 FA Cup appearances, as well as contributing a goal in a 2–1 win over [[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.edp24.co.uk/sport/norwich-city/cardiff-1-norwich-2-hanley-reaction-6910356|title=Cardiff 1 Norwich City 2: Grant Hanley reaction|first=David|last=Freezer|website=EDP|date=17 January 2021 |access-date=10 May 2021}}</ref> With Godfrey having left the club, Klose absent on loan and Zimmermann absent through injury, Hanley spent most of the season partnered with [[Ben Gibson]], as Norwich won the Football League Championship for the second time in three seasons. He came second behind [[Emi Buendia]] in Norwich's Player of the Season vote<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.edp24.co.uk/sport/norwich-city/grant-hanley-player-of-the-season-7934352|title=Hanley named as runner-up in Player of the Season vote|first=Connor|last=Southwell|website=EDP|date=29 April 2021 |access-date=10 May 2021}}</ref> and, after Norwich finished the season with a 2–2 draw with [[Barnsley F.C.|Barnsley]], he lifted the trophy alongside outgoing teammate Tettey, who had been made captain for the game but had handed the armband back to Hanley when he was substituted in the 87th minute.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.eveningnews24.co.uk/sport/norwich-city/norwich-city-championship-title-winners-7957820|title='Worthy champions' - City fans celebrate trophy lift|first=Connor|last=Southwell|website=Evening News|date=8 May 2021 |access-date=10 May 2021}}</ref>

====2021–22====
Ahead of Norwich's return to the Premier League, Hanley signed a new four-year contract deal, extending his stay with the club until 30 June 2025.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Grant Hanley signs contract extension at Norwich City|url=https://www.canaries.co.uk/News/2021/july/grant-hanley-signs-contract-extension-at-norwich-city/|access-date=2021-08-05|website=www.canaries.co.uk|language=en-gb}}</ref> He scored his first goal of the season on 20 November in Norwich's 2–1 win against [[Southampton F.C.|Southampton]], the first game in charge for new manager [[Dean Smith]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/59271460|title=Norwich City 2–1 Southampton|publisher=BBC Sport|date=20 November 2021|accessdate=27 March 2022}}</ref> Hanley suffered an injury, his second of the season, early on in the game with Manchester United on 11 December, having to be replaced by [[Jacob Sørensen (footballer, born 1998)|Jacob Sørensen]], with Norwich going on to lose the match 1–0.,<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/59529643|title=Norwich City 0–1 Manchester United|publisher=BBC Sport|date=11 December 2021|accessdate=28 May 2022}}</ref> but returned to the starting line-up in January.

Hanley would make a total of 33 Premier League appearances in the season, usually partnered with Gibson, as well as two appearances in the FA Cup and one in the Carabao Cup.<ref name="GH21"/> However, it would be another disappointing season for Norwich, as they finished bottom and were once again relegated back to the Championship after only one season. Hanley was one of the few Norwich players to come in for any praise: He again came second in the club's Player of the Season vote, this time losing out to [[Teemu Pukki]].<ref>{{Cite web|title=Pukki wins War Paint for Men Player of the Season award|url=https://www.canaries.co.uk/content/pukki-wins-war-paint-for-men-player-of-the-season-award|access-date=2022-05-28|website=www.canaries.co.uk|language=en-gb}}</ref>

====2022–23====
Hanley received a red card in the first league game of the season, a 1–0 defeat at [[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=Cardiff City 1-0 Norwich City: Romaine Sawyers scores winner for Bluebirds |url=https://www.skysports.com/football/news/11095/12660534/cardiff-city-1-0-norwich-city-romaine-sawyers-scores-winner-for-bluebirds |access-date=2022-10-07 |website=Sky Sports |language=en}}</ref> He scored his first goal of the season in a 1–1 draw at [[Reading F.C.|Reading]] in early October.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Reading 1-1 Norwich City: Jeff Hendrick earns point for Royals |url=https://www.skysports.com/football/news/11095/12708988/reading-1-1-norwich-city-jeff-hendrick-earns-point-for-royals |access-date=2022-10-07 |website=Sky Sports |language=en}}</ref> He would again be a regular for Norwich throughout the season, usually partnered with either Gibson or [[Andrew Omobamidele]], making 39 Championship appearances plus one in each of the cups.<ref name="GH22" /> However, he would suffer an injury during a 2–0 win over former club Blackburn Rovers,<ref>{{Cite web |title=Grant Hanley: Norwich centre-half set for surgery on 'serious' Achilles injury|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/65235001 |access-date=2023-05-12 |website=bbc.co.uk |date=10 April 2023 |language=en}}</ref> which caused him to miss the last five games of the season as Norwich finished 13th.

====2023–24====
Hanley's injury continued into the next season and he would not appear until December, when he was brought on as a half-time substitute for [[Jonathan Rowe (footballer, born 2003)|Jonathan Rowe]] in a 1–0 defeat to West Bromwich Albion, following the sending off of [[Borja Sainz]] late in the first half.<ref>{{Cite web |title=West Bromwich Albion 1–0 Norwich City|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/67756830 |access-date=2024-06-19 |website=bbc.co.uk |date=26 December 2023 |language=en}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |title=Grant Hanley: "You miss struggling to swallow porridge"|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/articles/cek5x1nrpr4o|access-date=2024-06-19 |website=bbc.co.uk |date=28 December 2023 |language=en}}</ref> He would subsequently start the New Year's Day game against  Southampton, where he was replaced by [[Adam Idah]] after 74 minutes.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Norwich City v Southampton|url=https://www.southamptonfc.com/en/match/norwich-city-vs-southampton-english-football-league--championship-2024-01-01|access-date=2024-06-19 |website=southamptonfc.com |language=en}}</ref> He was picked for Norwich's third round FA Cup tie, a 1–1 draw against [[Bristol Rovers F.C.|Bristol Rovers]], but exited the field during injury time with a back problem.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Norwich City: David Wagner on Hwang and Hanley injuries|url=https://www.pinkun.com/sport/norwich-city/24032722.norwich-city-david-wagner-hwang-hanley-injuries/|access-date=2024-06-19 |website=www.pinkun.com |date=7 January 2024 |language=en}}</ref> He finally played a full game for Norwich in February, a 2–2 draw against Queens Park Rangers.<ref>{{Cite web |title=QPR 2–2 Norwich|url=https://www.skysports.com/football/queens-park-rangers-vs-norwich-city/report/485069|access-date=2024-06-19 |website=www.skysports.com |language=en}}</ref>

By now, Norwich had signed both [[Shane Duffy]] and [[Danny Batth]] as options at centre-half alongside Gibson, and Hanley found his opportunities limited: He started only 6 league games and 2 FA Cup games, the last of them in March.<ref name="GH23" /> He made a rare appearance as an 82nd minute substitute for Gibson in the last game of the regulation season, a 1–0 defeat against Birmingham.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Birm'ham 1–0 Norwich|url=https://www.skysports.com/football/birmingham-city-vs-norwich-city/report/485242|access-date=2024-06-19 |website=www.skysports.com |language=en}}</ref> This saw Norwich finish 6th and qualify for the play-offs, which Hanley played no part in as the club were quickly eliminated by [[Leeds United F.C.|Leeds United]] in the semi-finals.

====2024–25====
With both Gibson and Batth leaving the club over the summer, Hanley was selected alongside Duffy in defense for Norwich's first game of the [[2024–25 Norwich City F.C. season|2024–25 season]] and first under new manager [[Johannes Hoff Thorup]]. The game, against newly promoted [[Oxford United F.C.|Oxford United]], ended in a 2–0 defeat. Hanley failed to clear the ball for Oxford's first goal and was substituted off after 61 minutes for Sørenson.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Oxford United 2–0 Norwich City|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/live/cn9ldl2q3dxt|access-date=2025-02-07 |website=www.bbc.co.uk |language=en}}</ref> He was subsequently removed from the starting lineup, with new signings [[Callum Doyle]] and [[José Córdoba]] both being preferred at centre half ahead of him and Duffy. He would make one further start in a Carabao Cup match against Crystal Palace.<ref>{{Cite web |title=C Palace 4–0 Norwich|url=https://www.skysports.com/football/c-palace-vs-norwich/teams/521189|access-date=2025-02-07 |website=www.skysports.com |language=en}}</ref> His remaining two appearances would be as a second-half substitute in Championship matches, with him making his last appearance for Norwich when he replaced Sørenson in the 75th minute of a match with Cardiff City on 2 November.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Cardiff 2–1 Norwich: Bluebirds earn win after stunning late turnaround|url=https://www.skysports.com/football/news/11688/13245483/cardiff-2-1-norwich-bluebirds-earn-win-after-stunning-late-turnaround|access-date=2025-02-07 |website=www.skysports.com |language=en}}</ref>

===Birmingham City===
On 17 January 2025, Hanley left Norwich, joining [[EFL League One|League One]] side [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]] on a short-term deal until the end of the season.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bcfc.com/pages/en/media-article/blues-sign-grant-hanley|title=Blues sign Grant Hanley!|publisher=[[Birmingham City F.C.]]|date=17 January 2025|accessdate=17 January 2025}}</ref> On 20 May 2025, the club announced he would be leaving in June when his contract expired.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2025-05-20 |title=Grant Hanley: Birmingham City defender one of two players released |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/cx2rrnpnvneo |access-date=2025-05-20 |website=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref>

===Hibernian===
Hanley signed a two-year deal with [[Scottish Premiership]] club [[Hibernian F.C.|Hibernian]] on 5 August 2025.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/articles/c70xz87rykko |title=Hibs sign Scotland's Hanley on two-year deal |website=BBC Sport |date=5 August 2025 |accessdate=5 August 2025}}</ref> It marked the first time in his professional career that he had played for a Scottish team.

==International career==
Hanley captained [[Scotland national under-19 football team|Scotland at under-19 level]].<ref name=NewCH/> On 17 November 2010, he played for [[Scotland national under-21 football team|Scotland under-21s]] when aged 18 in a 3–1 win against [[Northern Ireland national under-21 football team|Northern Ireland]] at [[Firhill]].<ref>[http://www.scottishfa.co.uk/scottish_fa_news.cfm?page=128&newsCategoryID=6&newsID=6832 Under-21s defeat Northern Ireland] Scottish Football Association, 17 November 2010</ref>

On 1 February 2011, Hanley was called up to the [[Scotland national football team|senior Scotland squad]] for the first time ahead of the game against [[Northern Ireland national football team|Northern Ireland]] in the [[Nations Cup (football)|Nations Cup]].<ref>{{cite news |url=https://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/scotland/9383384.stm |website=BBC Sport |title=Hanley nets first Scots call-up |date=1 February 2011}}</ref> He made his full international debut as an 84th-minute substitute on 25 May 2011 coming on for [[Gary Caldwell]] against [[Wales national football team|Wales]] in the Nations Cup in [[Dublin]].<ref name=qosintl>[https://web.archive.org/web/20120613072303/http://qosfc.com/new_newsview.aspx?newsid=674 Doonhamer internationalists] Queen of the South F.C., 25 May 2011</ref> His first Scotland goal was in his fifth full international when he opened the scoring in a [[2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)|2014 FIFA World Cup qualifier]] at home against [[Wales national football team|Wales]] on 22 March 2013 at [[Hampden Park]].<ref name=Wales/>

In May 2021, Hanley was named in [[Steve Clarke]]'s 26-man squad for [[UEFA Euro 2020]],<ref>{{cite news|last=Skinner|first=Andy|date=19 May 2021|title=Steve Clarke's 26-man Scotland squad for Euro 2020 announced|url=https://www.pressandjournal.co.uk/fp/sport/football/scottish/3156085/steve-clarkes-26-man-scotland-squad-for-euro-2020-announced/|access-date=10 October 2021|website=Press and Journal|language=en-GB}}</ref> appearing in all three matches against the [[Czech Republic national football team|Czech Republic]], [[England national football team|England]] and [[Croatia national football team|Croatia]].

On 7 June 2024, Hanley was named in Scotland's squad for the [[UEFA Euro 2024]] finals in Germany,<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.reuters.com/sports/soccer/record-breaking-goalkeeper-gordon-out-scotland-euro-2024-squad-2024-06-07/|title=Record-breaking goalkeeper Gordon out of Scotland's Euro 2024 squad|date=7 June 2024|access-date=15 June 2024|website=Reuters}}</ref> and on the same day made his [[Scottish FA International Roll of Honour|50th international appearance]] in a friendly against [[Finland national football team|Finland]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.eveningnews24.co.uk/sport/24375567.norwich-city-grant-hanley-interview-50th-scotland-cap/|title=Norwich City: Grant Hanley interview on 50th Scotland cap|website=Norwich Evening News |author= Samuel Seaman|access-date= 6 September 2024|date=9 June 2024}}</ref> Hanley appeared as a half-time substitute for [[Ché Adams]] after [[Ryan Porteous]] was sent off in 45th minute during the team's 5–1 loss to hosts [[Germany national football team|Germany]] in the opening match of the tournament on 15 June,<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/c844x4y3ee3t|title=Ruthless Germany humble 10-man Scotland in Euro 2024 opener|website=BBC Sport|access-date=15 June 2024|date=15 June 2024}}</ref> and went on to start in place of the suspended Porteous in both of the other group fixtures against [[Switzerland national football team|Switzerland]] and [[Hungary national football team|Hungary]] as Scotland finished bottom of [[UEFA Euro 2024 Group A|Group A]] with one point from three matches.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.uefa.com/euro2024/news/028e-1b2c127c5b92-e020507872a2-1000--scotland-1-1-switzerland-clarke-s-men-keep-group-a-hopes-/|title=Scotland 1-1 Switzerland: Clarke's men keep Group A hopes alive|access-date=24 June 2024|website=UEFA|date=19 June 2024 }}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.uefa.com/euro2024/match/2036186--scotland-vs-hungary/lineups/|title=Scotland vs Hungary: Line-ups|access-date=24 June 2024|website=UEFA|date=23 June 2024}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 16 May 2026}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan=2|Club
!rowspan=2|Season
!colspan=3|League
!colspan=2|National cup{{efn|Includes [[FA Cup]], [[Scottish Cup]]}}
!colspan=2|League cup{{efn|Includes [[EFL Cup|Football League/EFL Cup]], [[Scottish League Cup]]}}
|colspan="2"|Europe 
!colspan=2|Other
!colspan=2|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals 
|-
|rowspan=8|[[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]]
|[[2009–10 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2009–10]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2009/2010">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2009|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=12 March 2015}}</ref>
|[[Premier League]]
|1||0||0||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||1||0
|-
|[[2010–11 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2010–11]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2010/2011">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2010|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=29 September 2015}}</ref>
|Premier League
|7||1||2||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||9||1
|-
|[[2011–12 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2011–12]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2011/2012">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2011|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=12 March 2015}}</ref>
|Premier League
|23||1||1||0||4||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||28||1
|-
|[[2012–13 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2012–13]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2012/2013">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2012|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=12 March 2015}}</ref>
|[[EFL Championship|Championship]]
|39||2||5||1||1||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||45||3
|-
|[[2013–14 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2013–14]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2013/2014">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2013|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=12 March 2015}}</ref>
|Championship
|38||1||2||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||40||1
|-
|[[2014–15 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2014–15]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2014/2015">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2014|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=12 March 2015}}</ref>
|Championship
|31||1||0||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||31||1
|-
|[[2015–16 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2015–16]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2015/2016">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2015|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=2 June 2016}}</ref>
|Championship
|44||2||2||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||46||2
|-
!colspan=2|Total
!183!!8!!12!!1!!5!!0!!colspan=2|—!!colspan="2"|—!!200!!9
|-
|rowspan=3|[[Newcastle United F.C.|Newcastle United]]
|[[2016–17 Newcastle United F.C. season|2016–17]]<ref name="Games played by Grant Hanley in 2016/2017">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2016|name=Grant Hanley|access-date=11 August 2016}}</ref>
|Championship
|10||1||3||0||3||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||16||1
|-
|[[2017–18 Newcastle United F.C. season|2017–18]]<ref name="GH17"/>
|Premier League
|0||0||colspan=2|—||1||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||1||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!10!!1!!3!!0!!4!!0!!colspan=2|—!!colspan="2"|—!!17!!1
|-
|rowspan=9|[[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]]
|[[2017–18 Norwich City F.C. season|2017–18]]<ref name="GH17">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2017|access-date=10 October 2017}}</ref>
|Championship
|32||1||2||0||colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||34||1
|-
|[[2018–19 Norwich City F.C. season|2018–19]]<ref name="GH18">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2018|access-date=8 May 2019}}</ref>
|Championship
|9||1||1||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||10||1
|-
|[[2019–20 Norwich City F.C. season|2019–20]]<ref name="GH19">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2019|access-date=9 August 2019}}</ref>
|Premier League
|15||0||3||1||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||18||1
|-
|[[2020–21 Norwich City F.C. season|2020–21]]<ref name="GH20">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2020|access-date=20 September 2020}}</ref>
|Championship
|42||1||2||0||0||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||44||1
|-
|[[2021–22 Norwich City F.C. season|2021–22]]<ref name="GH21">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2021|access-date=1 July 2021}}</ref>
|Premier League
|33||1||2||0||1||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||36||1
|-
|[[2022–23 Norwich City F.C. season|2022–23]]<ref name="GH22">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2022|access-date=2 July 2022}}</ref>
|Championship
|39||1||1||0||1||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||41||1
|-
|[[2023–24 Norwich City F.C. season|2023–24]]<ref name="GH23">{{Soccerbase season|54555|2023|access-date=4 July 2023}}</ref>
|Championship
|8||0||2||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||10||0
|-
|[[2024–25 Norwich City F.C. season|2024–25]]<ref name="sb2425" />
|Championship
|3||0||colspan="2"|—||1||0||colspan=2|—||colspan="2"|—||4||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!181!!5!!13!!1!!3!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!0!!0!!197!!6
|-
|[[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]]
|[[2024–25 Birmingham City F.C. season|2024–25]]<ref name="sb2425">{{soccerbase season|54555|2024|access-date=3 May 2025}}</ref>
|[[EFL League One|League One]]
|14||0||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||2{{efn|Appearances in [[EFL Trophy]]}}||0||17||0
|-
|[[Hibernian F.C.|Hibernian]]
|[[2025–26 Hibernian F.C. season|2025–26]]<ref name="sb2526">{{soccerbase season|54555|2025|access-date=1 October 2025}}</ref>
|[[Scottish Premiership]]
|24||0||0||0||2||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||26||0
|-
!colspan=3|Career total
!415!!14!!29!!2!!14!!0!!0!!0!!2!!0!!458!!16
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 6 June 2026}}<ref name="NFT">{{NFT player|41802|name=Hanley, Grant|accessdate=22 July 2016}}</ref>

{| class=wikitable style="text-align: center;"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="14"|[[Scotland national football team|Scotland]]
|2011||3||0
|-
|2012||1||0
|-
|2013||8||1
|-
|2014||5||0
|-
|2015||3||0
|-
|2016||7||0
|-
|2017||1||0
|-
|2018||1||0
|-
|2021||11||1
|-
|2022||6||0
|-
|2023||2||0
|-
|2024||11||0
|-
|2025||7||0
|-
|2026||2||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!68!!2
|}

{{updated|played 30 May 2026}}<ref name="NFT"/>
:''Scores and results list Scotland goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Hanley goal.''

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Grant Hanley
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Cap
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
!scope="col" class="unsortable"|{{Abbr|Ref.|Reference}}
|-
|style="text-align:center"|1
|22 March 2013||[[Hampden Park]], [[Glasgow]], Scotland||style="text-align:center"|5||{{fb|WAL}}||style="text-align:center"|1–0||style="text-align:center"|1–2||[[2014 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group A|2014 FIFA World Cup qualification]]||<ref name=Wales>{{cite news |first=Alasdair |last=Lamont |title=Scotland 1–2 Wales |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/21653797 |website=BBC Sport |date=22 March 2013 |access-date=4 March 2016}}</ref>
|-
|style="text-align:center"|2
|25 March 2021||Hampden Park, Glasgow, Scotland||style="text-align:center"|30||{{fb|AUT}}||style="text-align:center"|1–1||style="text-align:center"|2–2||[[2022 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group F|2022 FIFA World Cup qualification]]|||<ref name=Austria>{{cite news|title=Scotland 2–2 Austria |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/56438742 |website=BBC Sport |date=25 March 2021 |access-date=25 March 2021}}</ref>
|}

==Honours==
'''Newcastle United'''
*[[EFL Championship]]: [[2016–17 EFL Championship|2016–17]]<ref>{{cite book |editor-first=John |editor-last=Anderson |title=Sky Sports Football Yearbook 2017–2018 |year=2017 |publisher=Headline Publishing Group |location=London |isbn=978-1-4722-3397-4 |pages=254–255}}</ref>

'''Norwich City'''
*[[EFL Championship]]: [[2018–19 EFL Championship|2018–19]],<ref>{{cite book |editor-first=John |editor-last=Anderson |title=Football Yearbook 2019–2020 |year=2019 |publisher=Headline Publishing Group |location=London |isbn=978-1-4722-6111-3 |pages=258–259}}</ref> [[2020–21 EFL Championship|2020–21]]<ref>{{Cite web|date=1 May 2021|title=Norwich 4–1 Reading: Daniel Farke's Canaries win Sky Bet Championship title|url=https://www.skysports.com/football/news/11709/12291163/norwich-4-1-reading-daniel-farkes-canaries-win-sky-bet-championship-title|access-date=11 September 2021|website=Sky Sports|language=en}}</ref>

'''Birmingham City'''
*[[EFL League One]]: [[2024–25 EFL League One|2024–25]]<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/articles/cj3xr53g0z5o |title=Birmingham win League One title after Wrexham draw |publisher=BBC Sport |date=12 April 2025 |access-date=14 April 2025}}<br />{{cite book |url=https://images.gc.eflservices.co.uk/13ec1e50-15e9-11f0-a2eb-91a1ddc0c472.pdf |title=Handbook: 2024/25 EFL Regulations |chapter=Section Six: EFL Regulations |at=38.2 p. 301 |publisher=English Football League |date=2024 |access-date=14 April 2025 |quote=To be eligible to receive a Championship, League One or Two winners medal, a player must have been named on the team sheet in at least 25% of the Club's league fixtures in that season.}}<br />{{cite web |url=https://uk.soccerway.com/teams/england/birmingham-city-fc/669/squad/ |title=Birmingham City FC: Squad: Statistics: 2024/2025 |website=Soccerway |publisher=Perform Group |access-date=14 April 2025}}</ref>
*[[EFL Trophy]] runner-up: [[2024–25 EFL Trophy|2024–25]]<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.skysports.com/football/birmingham-city-vs-peterborough-united/report/528824 |title=Birmingham City 0–2 Peterborough United: Harley Mills scores stunning free-kick as Posh become first team ever to retain Vertu Trophy |first=Dan |last=Long |publisher=Sky Sports |date=13 April 2025 |access-date=14 April 2025}}</ref>

'''Individual'''
* EFL Championship Team of the Season: [[2020–21 EFL Championship#Annual|2020–21]]<ref>{{Cite tweet|number=1387856623251644416|user=EFL|title=It's time to introduce your @SkyBetChamp Team of the Season! #EFL {{!}} #EFLAwards|author=EFL (English Football League)|date=29 April 2021|access-date=27 October 2021}}</ref>
* [[PFA Team of the Year]]: [[PFA Team of the Year (2020s)|2020–21 Championship]]<ref>{{cite web|date=3 June 2021|title=Norwich City dominate with six players in PFA Championship team of the year|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/57345692|access-date=3 June 2021|publisher=BBC Sport}}</ref>

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
{{Commons category}}
*[https://www.canaries.co.uk/player/grant-hanley Profile] at the Norwich City F.C. website
*{{SFA player|164188}}

{{Hibernian F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Scotland squads
| bg          = #003876
| fg          = #FFFFFF
| bordercolor = silver
| list1 = 
{{Scotland squad UEFA Euro 2020}}
{{Scotland squad UEFA Euro 2024}}
{{Scotland squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Awards
| bg = gold
| fg = navy
| list1 = 
{{2020–21 EFL Championship PFA Team of the Year}}
{{2020–21 EFL Championship Team of the Season}}
{{Blackburn Rovers F.C. Player of the Season}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Hanley, Grant}}
[[Category:1991 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Dumfries]]
[[Category:Scottish men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football defenders]]
[[Category:Blackburn Rovers F.C. players]]
[[Category:Newcastle United F.C. players]]
[[Category:Norwich City F.C. players]]
[[Category:Birmingham City F.C. players]]
[[Category:Premier League players]]
[[Category:English Football League players]]
[[Category:Scotland men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Scotland men's under-21 international footballers]]
[[Category:Scotland men's international footballers]]
[[Category:UEFA Euro 2020 players]]
[[Category:UEFA Euro 2024 players]]
[[Category:21st-century Scottish sportsmen]]
[[Category:Hibernian F.C. players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]