{{short description|Uruguayan footballer (born 1994)}}
{{family name hatnote|Aguirre|Soto|lang=Spanish}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=September 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Rodrigo Aguirre
| image = 
| fullname = Rodrigo Sebastián Aguirre Soto
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|1994|10|01|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Montevideo]], Uruguay
| height = 1.86 m
| position = [[Forward (association football)|Striker]]
| currentclub = [[Tigres UANL]]
| clubnumber = 17
| youthyears1 = 
| youthclubs1 = [[Liverpool F.C. (Montevideo)|Liverpool Montevideo]]
| years1 = 2011–2014
| clubs1 = [[Liverpool F.C. (Montevideo)|Liverpool Montevideo]]
| caps1 = 57
| goals1 = 16
| years2 = 2014–2019
| clubs2 = [[Udinese Calcio|Udinese]]
| caps2 = 17
| goals2 = 1
| years3 = 2014–2015
| clubs3 = → [[Empoli F.C.|Empoli]] (loan)
| caps3 = 1
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2016
| clubs4 = → [[A.C. Perugia Calcio|Perugia]] (loan)
| caps4 = 17
| goals4 = 3
| years5 = 2016–2017
| clubs5 = → [[FC Lugano|Lugano]] (loan)
| caps5 = 9
| goals5 = 1
| years6 = 2017
| clubs6 = → [[Club Nacional de Football|Nacional]] (loan)
| caps6 = 26
| goals6 = 13
| years7 = 2018–2019
| clubs7 = → [[Botafogo de Futebol e Regatas|Botafogo]] (loan)
| caps7 = 22
| goals7 = 1
| years8 = 2019–2022
| clubs8 = [[L.D.U. Quito|LDU Quito]]
| caps8 = 42
| goals8 = 17
| years9 = 2021–2022
| clubs9 = → [[Club Necaxa|Necaxa]] (loan)
| caps9 = 38
| goals9 = 12
| years10 = 2022–2024
| clubs10 = [[C.F. Monterrey|Monterrey]]
| caps10 = 59
| goals10 = 8
| years11 = 2024–2026
| clubs11 = [[Club America|America]]
| caps11 = 44
| goals11 = 15
| years12 = 2026–
| clubs12 = [[Tigres UANL]]
| caps12 = 9
| goals12 = 1
| nationalyears1 = 2010–2011
| nationalteam1 = [[Uruguay national under-17 football team|Uruguay U17]]
| nationalcaps1 = 23
| nationalgoals1 = 4
| nationalyears2 = 2012–2013
| nationalteam2 = [[Uruguay national under-20 football team|Uruguay U20]]
| nationalcaps2 = 18
| nationalgoals2 = 1
| nationalyears3 = 2012
| nationalteam3 = [[Uruguay national under-23 football team|Uruguay U23]]
| nationalcaps3 = 1
| nationalgoals3 = 0
| nationalyears4 = 2024–
| nationalteam4 = [[Uruguay national football team|Uruguay]]
| nationalcaps4 = 10
| nationalgoals4 = 3
| medaltemplates = {{MedalCountry|{{URU}}}}
{{MedalSport | Men's [[Football (soccer)|Football]]}}
{{MedalCompetition|[[South American Youth Football Championship|South American U-20 Championship]]}}
{{Medal|3rd|[[2013 South American Youth Football Championship|2013 Argentina]]|}}
{{MedalCompetition|[[FIFA U-17 World Cup]]}}
{{Medal|RU|[[2011 FIFA U-17 World Cup|2011 Mexico]]|}}
{{MedalCompetition|[[South American U-17 Championship]]}}
{{Medal|RU|[[2011 South American U-17 Championship|2011 Ecuador]]|}}
| club-update = 1 December 2024
| nationalteam-update = 27 March 2026
}}

'''Rodrigo Sebastián Aguirre Soto''' (born 1 October 1994) is a Uruguayan professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Forward (association football)|striker]] for [[Liga MX]] club [[Tigres UANL]] and the [[Uruguay national football team|Uruguay national team]].

==Club career==
===Early career===
Aguirre, born and raised in Montevideo, started playing football at a young age. At twelve, he joined [[Liverpool F.C. (Montevideo)|Liverpool Montevideo]], where he signed his first contract and began his professional career.

He made his debut in 2011, playing three matches in the Apertura Tournament. He gradually earned more playing time, scoring his first goal in the 2012 Copa Sudamericana against Envigado.

=== Europe ===
In April 2014, [[Udinese Calcio|Udinese]] paid around €4 million for the 19-year-old striker on a five-year contract.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Liverpool vendió a Rodrigo Aguirre por € 4 millones |url=https://www.elobservador.com.uy/nota/liverpool-vendio-a-rodrigo-aguirre-por-4-millones-20144811420 |access-date=2026-02-07 |website=El Observador |language=es-UY}}</ref> He was loaned to [[Empoli FC|Empoli]] for the 2014-15 Serie A season, where injuries limited him to two appearances. Back at Udinese, he struggled for playing time, scoring only one goal. In 2016, he was loaned to [[AC Perugia Calcio|Perugia]] (Serie B) and later to [[FC Lugano|Lugano]] (Swiss Super League).

=== Return to South America ===
In January 2017, he joined [[Club Nacional de Football|Nacional]] on a six-month loan, where he rediscovered his form.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2017-01-23 |title=El Nacional de Uruguay se refuerza con Rodrigo Aguirre |url=https://www.conmebol.com/noticias/el-nacional-de-uruguay-se-refuerza-con-rodrigo-aguirre/ |access-date=2026-02-07 |website=CONMEBOL |language=es-ES}}</ref> His loan was extended, and in July he scored the winning goal in the Torneo Intermedio final against Defensor Sporting. A meniscus injury ended his year, and his loan expired on December 31.

In January 2018, Aguirre joined [[Botafogo FR|Botafogo]] on loan.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Rodrigo Aguirre descartó al Emelec y continuará su carrera en el Botafogo de Brasil |url=https://www.montevideo.com.uy/Deportes/Rodrigo-Aguirre-descarto-al-Emelec-y-continuara-su-carrera-en-el-Botafogo-de-Brasil-uc673565 |access-date=2026-02-07 |website=futbol.com.uy - Montevideo Portal |language=es}}</ref> After fifteen scoreless games, he scored his only goal for the club against Sport Recife. He was named to ESPN Brasil's "Bola de Tata" (worst performers) for the Brasileirão. His loan was terminated in January 2019.

Shortly after leaving Botafogo, he signed with [[LDU Quito]], where he went on to capture the Copa Ecuador and the Supercopa de Ecuador.<ref>{{cite web |date=4 February 2019 |title=RODRIGO AGUIRRE, OCTAVO REFUERZO ALBO PARA LA TEMPORADA 2019. |url=https://www.ldu.com.ec/home/2019/02/04/rodrigoaguirre/ |publisher=[[L.D.U. Quito]] |language=Spanish}}</ref>

=== Mexico ===
In January 2021, Aguirre moved to Mexico to join [[Club Necaxa|Necaxa]] on loan.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2025-07-15 |title=RODRIGO AGUIRRE ES NUEVO RAYO DEL NECAXA. |url=http://clubnecaxa.mx/noticias/2472/RODRIGO-AGUIRRE-ES-NUEVO-RAYO-DEL-NECAXA |access-date=2026-02-07 |website=clubnecaxa.mx |language=en}}</ref> His performances earned him a permanent move to [[C.F. Monterrey|Monterrey]] in June 2022.<ref>{{Cite web |title=¡BIENVENIDO, RODRIGO AGUIRRE, NUEVO JUGADOR DE RAYADOS! |url=https://www.rayados.com/es/noticias/17135/bienvenido-rodrigo-aguirre-nuevo-jugador-de-rayados- |access-date=2026-02-07 |website=www.rayados.com |language=es}}</ref> Two years later, he signed with [[Club América]], where he secured his first title in Mexican football, the [[2024–25 Liga MX season#Torneo Apertura|Apertura 2024]] championship.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Caballero |first=César |date=2024-07-19 |title=América hizo oficial la contratación del delantero Rodrigo Aguirre |url=https://www.espn.com.mx/futbol/mexico/nota/_/id/13926118/america-liga-mx-rodrigo-aguirre-anuncia-contratacion-delantero |access-date=2026-02-07 |website=ESPN.com.mx |language=es}}</ref> In February 2026, Aguirre was transferred to [[Tigres UANL]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=2026-02-07 |title=¡Un viejo conocido! Rodrigo Aguirre, exjugador de Rayados, se convierte en refuerzo de Tigres |url=https://www.foxsports.com.mx/2026/02/06/un-viejo-conocido-rodrigo-aguirre-exjugador-de-rayados-se-convierte-en-refuerzo-de-tigres/ |access-date=2026-02-07 |website=Fox Sports |language=es}}</ref>

==International career==
===Youth===
As a youth international, Aguirre was part of Uruguayan squads at the [[2011 South American Under-17 Football Championship]], [[2011 FIFA U-17 World Cup]] and the [[2013 South American Youth Football Championship]].<ref>{{cite web|title=11 - RODRIGO AGUIRRE|url=https://www.auf.org.uy/11-rodrigo-aguirre/|date=10 January 2013|access-date=17 November 2024}}</ref>

===Senior===
On 15 November 2024, Aguirre made his debut in a [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification (CONMEBOL)|World Cup qualifier]] match against [[Colombia national football team|Colombia]]. He was featured in the starting line-up and scored his first goal during the second half in the 60th minute of the match.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://espndeportes.espn.com/futbol/mundial/nota/_/id/14449674/%C2%A1inolvidable!-asi-fue-el-debut-de-rodrigo-aguirre-en-la-seleccion-uruguaya|title=¡Inolvidable! Así fue el debut de Rodrigo Aguirre en la Selección Uruguaya|date=15 November 2024|work=[[ESPNDeportes.com|ESPN Deportes]]|access-date=15 November 2024}}</ref> On 31 May 2026, he was named in Uruguay's 26-man squad for the [[2026 FIFA World Cup]].<ref>{{cite web|title=Mundial 2026: Uruguay dio a conocer la lista de 26 convocados por Marcelo Bielsa|url=https://www.montevideo.com.uy/Deportes/Mundial-2026-Uruguay-dio-a-conocer-la-lista-de-26-convocados-por-Marcelo-Bielsa-uc963756|language=es|date=31 May 2026|access-date=31 May 2026}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===International===
{{updated|match played 27 March 2026}}<ref name="soccerway">{{Soccerway|181034}}</ref>
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan=3|[[Uruguay national football team|Uruguay]]
|2024||2||1
|-
|2025||7||2
|-
|2026||1||0
|-
!colspan=2|Total!!10!!3
|}

:''Scores and results list Uruguay's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Aguirre goal.''

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Rodrigo Aguirre
|-
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
| align="center"|1 || 15 November 2024 || [[Estadio Centenario]], [[Montevideo]], Uruguay || {{fb|COL}} || align="center"|2–1 || align="center"|3–2 || [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification (CONMEBOL)|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|-
| align="center"|2 || 10 June 2025 || Estadio Centenario, Montevideo, Uruguay || {{fb|VEN}} || align="center"|1–0 || align="center"|2–0 || 2026 FIFA World Cup qualification
|-
| align="center"|3 || 4 September 2025 || Estadio Centenario, Montevideo, Uruguay || {{fb|PER}} || align="center"|1–0 || align="center"|3–0 || 2026 FIFA World Cup qualification
|}

==Honours==
'''Botafogo'''
* [[Campeonato Carioca]]: [[2018 Campeonato Carioca|2018]]

'''Liga de Quito'''
* [[Copa Ecuador]]: [[2019 Copa Ecuador|2019]]
* Supercopa Ecuador: 2020

'''América'''
*[[Liga MX]]: [[2024–25 Liga MX season#Torneo Apertura|Apertura 2024]]
*[[Campeones Cup]]: [[2024 Campeones Cup|2024]]

'''Uruguay U17'''
* [[2011 FIFA U-17 World Cup]]: Runner-Up
* [[2011 South American Under-17 Football Championship]]: Runner-Up

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*{{in lang|en}} [https://int.soccerway.com/players/rodrigo-aguirre/181034/ Profile at soccerway]

{{Tigres UANL squad}}
{{Uruguay squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Aguirre, Rodrigo}}
[[Category:1994 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Montevideo]]
[[Category:Uruguayan men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football forwards]]
[[Category:Liverpool F.C. (Montevideo) players]]
[[Category:Udinese Calcio players]]
[[Category:Empoli FC players]]
[[Category:AC Perugia Calcio players]]
[[Category:FC Lugano players]]
[[Category:Club Nacional de Football players]]
[[Category:Botafogo FR players]]
[[Category:L.D.U. Quito footballers]]
[[Category:Club Necaxa footballers]]
[[Category:C.F. Monterrey players]]
[[Category:Club América footballers]]
[[Category:Tigres UANL footballers]]
[[Category:Uruguayan Primera División players]]
[[Category:Serie A players]]
[[Category:Serie B players]]
[[Category:Swiss Super League players]]
[[Category:Campeonato Brasileiro Série A players]]
[[Category:Ecuadorian Serie A players]]
[[Category:Liga MX players]]
[[Category:Uruguay men's under-20 international footballers]]
[[Category:Uruguay men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Uruguayan expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Uruguayan expatriate sportspeople in Italy]]
[[Category:Uruguayan expatriate sportspeople in Switzerland]]
[[Category:Uruguayan expatriate sportspeople in Brazil]]
[[Category:Uruguayan expatriate sportspeople in Ecuador]]
[[Category:Uruguayan expatriate sportspeople in Mexico]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Italy]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Switzerland]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Brazil]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Ecuador]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Mexico]]
[[Category:21st-century Uruguayan sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]