{{short description|Argentine footballer}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=September 2022}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Agustín Giay
| image = Entrenamiento Argentina Sub20 previo al mundial - BugWarp (36) (cropped).jpg
| image_size = 
| alt = 
| caption = Giay with [[Argentina national under-20 football team|Argentina U20]] in 2023
| full_name = Agustín Giay<ref name="FIFA">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce89/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA U-20 World Cup Argentina 2023™ SQUAD LIST: Argentina (ARG) |publisher=FIFA |page=1 |date=22 May 2023 |access-date=29 May 2023}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|2004|January|16|df=y}}<ref name="FIFA"/>
| birth_place = [[San Carlos Centro]], Argentina
| death_date = 
| death_place = 
| height = 1.80 m<ref name="FIFA"/>
| position = [[Defender (association football)#Full-back|Right-back]]
| currentclub = [[SE Palmeiras|Palmeiras]]
| clubnumber = 4
| youthyears1 = until 2017
| youthclubs1 = {{Interlanguage link|Argentino de San Carlos|es|Club Atlético Argentino de San Carlos}}
| youthyears2 = 
| youthclubs2 = 
| youthyears3 = 2017–2022
| youthclubs3 = [[San Lorenzo de Almagro|San Lorenzo]]
| years1 = 2022–2024
| clubs1 = [[San Lorenzo de Almagro|San Lorenzo]]
| caps1 = 66
| goals1 = 2
| years2 = 2024–
| clubs2 = [[SE Palmeiras|Palmeiras]]
| caps2 = 63
| goals2 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 
| nationalteam1 = [[Argentina national under-15 football team|Argentina U15]]
| nationalcaps1 = 
| nationalgoals1 = 
| nationalyears2 = 2022–
| nationalteam2 = [[Argentina national under-20 football team|Argentina U20]]
| nationalcaps2 = 6
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2026–
| nationalteam3 = [[Argentina national football team|Argentina]]
| nationalcaps3 = 2
| nationalgoals3 = 0
| club-update = 23 May 2026
| nationalteam-update = 6 June 2026
}}
'''Agustín Giay''' (born 16 January 2004) is an [[Argentina|Argentine]] professional [[Football player|footballer]] who plays as a [[Defender (association football)#Full-back|right-back]] for [[Campeonato Brasileiro Série A]] club [[SE Palmeiras|Palmeiras]] and the [[Argentina national football team|Argentina national team]].<ref name="SW">{{cite web |title=A. Giay |url=https://int.soccerway.com/players/agustin-giay/692938/ |access-date=28 June 2024 |website=Soccerway}}</ref>

== Early life ==
Born in [[San Carlos Centro]], Giay joined [[San Lorenzo de Almagro|San Lorenzo]]'s youth wing at 13.<ref>{{Cite web |date=3 April 2022 |title=Agustín Giay: 'Soñando despierto' |url=https://www.ellitoral.com/deportes/agustin-giay-sonando-despierto_0_YIkLZYgeeH.html |access-date=2022-09-19 |website=[[El Litoral]] |language=es}}</ref><ref name=":0" />

== Club career ==
=== Club Argentino de San Carlos ===

He completed most of his football training at [[Argentino de San Carlos]], the club he openly supports. He stood out for his performances and skill in the youth divisions of the [[Liga Santafesina de Fútbol]] (the league in which Argentino de San Carlos competed during those years, before transferring its affiliation to the [[Liga Esperancina de Fútbol]] in 2023). At the age of thirteen, he was selected after a player tryout held by San Lorenzo de Almagro in his hometown in 2017. He moved to Buenos Aires and, while living at San Lorenzo's residence, began his career, also making appearances for the national youth teams.

Agustín Giay has a very close relationship with [[Argentino de San Carlos]], so much so that during preseason weeks when he is not playing (generally in January), he often trains with the club's squad at their facilities.

=== Club San Lorenzo ===
Giay made his professional debut for [[San Lorenzo de Almagro|San Lorenzo]] on 19 April 2022, starting in the 1–2 away [[2022 Copa de la Liga Profesional|Copa de la Liga]] win to [[Unión de Santa Fe|CA Unión]].<ref name=":0">{{Cite web |date=8 August 2022 |title=La historia de Agustín Giay, la joya de San Lorenzo que potenció Insúa y fue campeón con la Sub-20 |url=https://www.tycsports.com/san-lorenzo/la-historia-de-agustin-giay-la-joya-de-san-lorenzo-que-potencio-insua-y-fue-campeon-con-la-sub-20-id456082.html |access-date=2022-09-19 |website=[[TyC Sports]] |language=es-AR}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |last= |date=19 April 2022 |title=San Lorenzo le ganó 2-1 a Unión en Santa Fe y respira aliviado |url=https://www.telam.com.ar/notas/202204/589834-san-lorenzo-union-copa-liga.html |access-date=2022-09-19 |website=[[Télam]] |language=es |archive-date=20 September 2022 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20220920171121/https://www.telam.com.ar/notas/202204/589834-san-lorenzo-union-copa-liga.html |url-status=dead }}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |last= |date=19 April 2022 |title=Maxi Giay por LT10: 'Todo San Carlos está muy feliz' |url=https://lt10.com.ar/noticia/331529--maxi-giay-por-lt10-todo-san-carlos-esta-muy-feliz |access-date=2022-09-19 |website={{ill|Radio Universidad Nacional del Litoral|es|lt=LT10}} |language=es-ES}}</ref>

He scored his first goal for the club on 9 July 2022 during a [[2022 Argentine Primera División|Primera División]] home game against the [[Boca Juniors]], helping his team to a 2–1 surprise win.<ref name=":0" /><ref>{{Cite web |date=9 July 2022 |title=Agustín Giay: 'Soñaba todos los días con hacer un gol acá' |url=https://www.elgrafico.com.ar/articulo/1038/54503/agustin-giay-soniaba-todos-los-dias-con-hacer-un-gol-aca |access-date=2022-09-19 |website=[[El Gráfico (Argentina)|El Gráfico]] |language=es}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |date=9 July 2022 |title=Agustín Giay, la joya de San Lorenzo que debutó en las redes ante Boca |url=https://www.a24.com/ovacion/futbol/agustin-giay-la-joya-san-lorenzo-que-debuto-las-redes-boca-n1029534 |access-date=2022-09-19 |website=[[América 24|A24]] |language=es-AR}}</ref> Along with the likes of [[Agustín Martegani]], Giay was part of a youthful but promising San Lorenzo squad.<ref>{{Cite web |last=González |first=Fede |date=2022-08-23 |title=Agustin Giay en la mira del grupo City |url=https://argentina.as.com/futbol/agustin-giay-en-la-mira-del-grupo-city-n/ |access-date=2022-09-19 |website=[[Diario AS]] |language=es-ar}}</ref>

==== Disappearance of 10% of the pass ====
In the 2021/22 Balance sheet officially presented by San Lorenzo on June 13, 2023, it appeared that the Argentine institution owned 90% of Agustín Giay's pass, leaving the remaining 10% lost to complete the 100. This data caught attention to the Ciclón fans, because Agustín (being a youth member of the club) had not previously been part of another professional entity which could be the owner of the mysteriously missing percentage. This event was then sued by Movete Boedo Movete (the club's fan movement) to the General Inspection of Justice, who said that serious property damage was caused to the Club. It is worth mentioning that the 2020/21 Balance Sheet (the previous one) included absolute possession of the entire player's record, which was lost over the course of those two years. This had already happened to the Cuervo directors, at the time with Bautista Merlini and they themselves argued that it was a "typing error."

=== Sociedade Palmeiras ===
On 28 June 2024, Giay signed for [[SE Palmeiras]] in the [[Campeonato Brasileiro Série A|Brasileirão]] on a deal until June 2029<ref>{{Cite web |date=28 June 2024 |title=AGUSTÍN GIAY ACERTA COM PALMEIRAS ATÉ 2029: ‘VIM PARA GANHAR TÍTULOS’ |url=https://www.palmeiras.com.br/noticias/agustin-giay-acerta-com-palmeiras-ate-2029-vim-para-ganhar-titulos/ |access-date=28 June 2024 |website=www.palmeiras.com.br}}</ref>

== International career ==
{{BLP unsourced section|date=July 2024}}

=== Argentina U-15 ===
In 2019 he played and won the [[Vlatko Marković International Tournament]] held in Croatia.

That same year he participated at the [[2019 South American U-15 Championship]] in Paraguay where Argentina finished second.

=== Argentina U-20 ===
He started in friendly match against the United States.

Later, in 2022 he was called to play the [[2022 Maurice Revello Tournament|Maurice Revello tournament]], where the Argentina U-20 team finished in the fifth place.

The seventh of August 2022 he won the [[L'Alcúdia International Football Tournament|L'Alcudia tournament]] whilst being the captain of the team and beating Uruguay U-20 by 4 goals. He scored the first goal in the eighth minute of the match.

He played the [[2023 FIFA U-20 World Cup]] held in Argentina and was the captain for his team making 4 appearances and losing in the round of 16 against Nigeria.

== Career statistics ==
=== Club ===
{{updated|match played 28 May 2026}}<ref name="SW"/>
{| class="wikitable center" style="text-align: center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|State league{{efn|Includes [[Campeonato Paulista]]}}
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Copa Argentina]], [[Copa do Brasil]]}}
!colspan="2"|Continental
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[San Lorenzo de Almagro|San Lorenzo]]
|[[2022 AFA Liga Profesional de Fútbol|2022]]
|rowspan="3"|[[Argentine Primera División]]
|23||1||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||23||1
|-
|[[2023 AFA Liga Profesional de Fútbol|2023]]
|27||0||colspan="2"|—||5||0||9{{efn|Appearances in [[Copa Sudamericana]]}}||0||colspan="2"|—||41||0
|-
|[[2024 San Lorenzo de Almagro season|2024]]
|16||1||colspan="2"|—||2||0||6{{efn|name=CopaLib|Appearance(s) in [[Copa Libertadores]]}}||0||colspan="2"|—||24||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!66!!2!!colspan="2"|—!!7!!0!!15!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!88!!2
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[SE Palmeiras|Palmeiras]]
|[[2024 SE Palmeiras season|2024]]
|rowspan="3"|[[Campeonato Brasileiro Série A|Série A]]
|10||0||colspan="2"|—||1||0||1{{efn|name=CopaLib}}||0||colspan="2"|—||12||0
|-
|[[2025 SE Palmeiras season|2025]]
|29||0||4||0||4||0||8{{efn|name=CopaLib}}||0||4{{efn|Appearances in [[FIFA Club World Cup]]}}||0||49||0
|-
|[[2026 SE Palmeiras season|2026]]
|15||0||5||0||0||0||6{{efn|name=CopaLib}}||0||colspan="2"|—||26||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!54!!0!!9!!0!!5!!0!!15!!0!!4!!0!!87!!0
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!120!!2!!9!!0!!12!!0!!30!!0!!4!!0!!175!!2
|}
{{notelist}}

=== International ===
{{updated|match played 6 June 2026}}<ref>{{NFT player|id=103917}}</ref>
{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|[[Argentina national football team|Argentina]]
|2026||2||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!2!!0
|}

== Honours ==

; Palmeiras
*[[Campeonato Paulista]]: [[2026 Campeonato Paulista|2026]]

;Argentina U20
*[[L'Alcúdia International Football Tournament]]: [[:es:Torneo internacional de fútbol sub-20 de la Alcudia de 2022|2022]]

== References ==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*{{Soccerway|agustin-giay/692938}}

{{SE Palmeiras squad}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Giay, Agustín}}
[[Category:2004 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Argentine men's footballers]]
[[Category:Argentina men's under-20 international footballers]]
[[Category:Argentina men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Argentina men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Footballers from Santa Fe Province]]
[[Category:San Lorenzo de Almagro footballers]]
[[Category:SE Palmeiras players]]
[[Category:Argentine Primera División players]]
[[Category:Campeonato Brasileiro Série A players]]
[[Category:Argentine expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Brazil]]
[[Category:Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Brazil]]
[[Category:Argentine people of Italian descent]]
[[Category:Sportspeople of Italian descent]]
[[Category:21st-century Argentine sportsmen]]