{{Short description|English footballer (born 1990)}}
{{Use British English|date=November 2021}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=November 2021}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Jason Steele
| image = Jason Steele.jpg
| image_size = 
| caption = Steele playing for [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]] in 2016
| full_name = Jason Sean Steele<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.fifa.com/mm/document/tournament/competition/01/10/28/62/fwyc_2009_squadlists.pdf |title=FIFA U-20 World Cup Egypt 2009™: List of Players: England |publisher=FIFA |page=7 |date=6 October 2009 |archiveurl=https://web.archive.org/web/20091013164551/http://www.fifa.com/mm/document/tournament/competition/01/10/28/62/fwyc_2009_squadlists.pdf |archivedate=13 October 2009}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|1990|8|18|df=y}}<ref name="Sky Sports Football Yearbook 2012–2013">{{cite book|editor1-first=Glenda|editor1-last=Rollin|editor2-first=Jack|editor2-last=Rollin|title=Sky Sports Football Yearbook 2012–2013|year=2012|publisher=Headline Publishing Group|location=London|isbn=978-0-7553-6356-8|page=444|edition=43rd}}</ref>
| birth_place = [[Newton Aycliffe]], England
| height = {{height|ft=6|in=2}}<ref name="Sky Sports Football Yearbook 2012–2013"/>
| position = [[Goalkeeper (association football)|Goalkeeper]]
| currentclub = [[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.|Brighton & Hove Albion]]
| clubnumber = 23
| youthyears1 = {{0|0000}}–2007
| youthclubs1 = [[Middlesbrough F.C.|Middlesbrough]]
| years1 = 2007–2015
| clubs1 = [[Middlesbrough F.C.|Middlesbrough]]
| caps1 = 131
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2010
| clubs2 = → [[Northampton Town F.C.|Northampton Town]] (loan)
| caps2 = 13
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2014
| clubs3 = → [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]] (loan)
| caps3 = 31
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2015–2017
| clubs4 = [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]]
| caps4 = 82
| goals4 = 0
| years5 = 2017–2018
| clubs5 = [[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]]
| caps5 = 15
| goals5 = 0
| years6 = 2018–
| clubs6 = [[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.|Brighton & Hove Albion]]
| caps6 = 35
| goals6 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2006
| nationalteam1 = [[England national under-16 football team|England U16]]
| nationalcaps1 = 1
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2006–2007
| nationalteam2 = [[England national under-17 football team|England U17]]
| nationalcaps2 = 10
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2007–2009
| nationalteam3 = [[England national under-19 football team|England U19]]
| nationalcaps3 = 16
| nationalgoals3 = 0
| nationalyears4 = 2010–2013
| nationalteam4 = [[England national under-21 football team|England U21]]
| nationalcaps4 = 7
| nationalgoals4 = 0
| nationalyears5 = 2026–

| nationalgoals5= 0
| nationalyears6 = 2012
| nationalteam6 = [[Great Britain men's Olympic football team|Great Britain Olympic]]
| nationalcaps6 = 1
| nationalgoals6 = 0
| club-update = 23:50, 24 August 2024 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 20 March 2026
}}
'''Jason Sean Steele''' (born 18 August 1990) is an English professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Goalkeeper (association football)|goalkeeper]] for {{English football updater|Brigh&HA}} club [[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.|Brighton & Hove Albion]] and the [[England national football team|England national team]].

Steele progressed through [[Middlesbrough F.C. Reserves and Academy|Middlesbrough's youth system]], signing his first professional contract with the [[Premier League]] club in 2009.<ref name=ProContract1/> He made his professional footballing debut while on loan at [[EFL League Two|League Two]] side [[Northampton Town F.C.|Northampton Town]] during the [[2009–10 Northampton Town F.C. season|2009–10 season]].<ref name=sb0910/> Steele made his Middlesbrough debut in the [[2010–11 Football League Championship|2010–11 Championship season]], eventually becoming first-choice goalkeeper. Steele represented England at all youth levels. He was called up for the [[Great Britain men's Olympic football team|Great Britain Olympic team]] at the London [[2012 Summer Olympic Games]], making a singular appearance against [[Brazil national under-23 football team|Brazil]].<ref name=teamgb/><ref name=olympics/> Steele left Middlesbrough at the end of the [[2013–14 Football League Championship|2013–14 season]] after losing his place in the starting lineup.<ref name="sb1314"/>

At the start of the [[2014–15 Football League Championship|2014–15 season]], Steele joined Championship club [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]] on loan.<ref name=brloan/> He signed for them permanently during the 2015 winter transfer window.<ref name=brperm/> He established himself as their first-choice goalkeeper in the [[2016–17 EFL Championship|2016–17 season]], Blackburn were relegated to [[EFL League One|League One]], which culminated in Steele's departure to Championship side [[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]].<ref name=sunderland/>

He left Sunderland after one season, joining Brighton & Hove Albion in the Premier League. Serving as back-up, he eventually made his Premier League debut in November 2021.<ref name=Brighton/><ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/59271462|title=Aston Villa 2–0 Brighton & Hove Albion: Steven Gerrard's side win through late Ollie Watkins and Tyrone Mings goals – BBC Sport|publisher=BBC Sport |date=20 November 2021 |access-date=21 January 2022}}</ref>

==Early life==
Steele was born in [[Newton Aycliffe]], County Durham.<ref>{{Hugman|25413|access-date=21 June 2018}}</ref> He attended [[Woodham Academy|Woodham Community Technology College]] (now named [[Woodham Academy]]), the same school as his former [[Middlesbrough F.C.|Middlesbrough]] teammate [[Ross Turnbull]].<ref name="Small town is in safe hands (From The Northern Echo)">{{Cite web |title=Small town is in safe hands |work=[[The Northern Echo]] |url=http://www.thenorthernecho.co.uk/sport/8327444.Small_town_is_in_safe_hands/ |access-date=19 August 2010 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120930232453/http://www.thenorthernecho.co.uk/sport/8327444.Small_town_is_in_safe_hands/ |url-status=live |archive-date=30 September 2012}}</ref><ref name="Woodham Community Technology College - Parents' Mailing (March 2010)">{{Cite web |title=Woodham Community Technology College – Parents' Mailing (March 2010) |publisher=Woodham Community Technology College |url = http://www.woodham.durham.sch.uk/Documents/ParentsMailing/ParentsMailingMarch2010.pdf |access-date=19 August 2010 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120308121837/http://www.woodham.durham.sch.uk/Documents/ParentsMailing/ParentsMailingMarch2010.pdf |url-status=dead |archive-date=8 March 2012}}</ref><ref name="Ross Turnbull">{{Cite web |title=Ross Turnbull |work=[[The Northern Echo]] |url=http://www.thenorthernecho.co.uk/news/4475144.So_proud_____the_junior_club_where_it_all_began_for_Ross/ | access-date=25 June 2010 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120930115409/http://www.thenorthernecho.co.uk/news/4475144.So_proud_____the_junior_club_where_it_all_began_for_Ross/ |url-status=live |archive-date=30 September 2012}}</ref>

==Club career==
===Middlesbrough===
He came through [[Middlesbrough F.C.|Middlesbrough]]'s [[youth academy]]. In May 2009, Steele signed a new three-year contract with Middlesbrough, which was his first professional contract.<ref name=ProContract1>{{cite web |url=http://www.mfc.premiumtv.co.uk/articles/jason-steele-middlesbrough_70610_41916 |title=Squad: Jason Steele |publisher=Middlesbrough F.C. |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20091207072105/http://www.mfc.premiumtv.co.uk/articles/jason-steele-middlesbrough_70610_41916 |archive-date=7 December 2009 |url-status=dead}}</ref> [[Danny Coyne]] was signed during Middlesbrough's first season in the [[EFL Championship|Championship]] in the [[2009–10 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2009–10 season]], instead of promoting Steele to a permanent senior squad member.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} He was sent out on [[Loan (sports)|loan]] to [[Northampton Town F.C.|Northampton Town]] in February 2010, to gain first team experience.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/8490404.stm |title=Transfers – February 2010 |publisher=BBC Sport |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> He kept four clean sheets in 13 matches.<ref name=sb0910/>

Thanks to his impressive stint at Northampton, Steele was handed his first competitive start for Middlesbrough in a 2–1 victory over Chesterfield in the [[EFL Cup|League Cup]], on 10 August 2010.<ref name=sb1011/> He made his league debut away to [[Leicester City F.C.|Leicester City]] on 14 August 2010 and capped it with a clean sheet in a 0–0 draw.<ref name=sb1011/> With the sale of [[Brad Jones (footballer)|Brad Jones]] to [[Liverpool F.C.|Liverpool]], Steele went on to establish himself as Middlesbrough's first-choice [[Goalkeeper (association football)|goalkeeper]], ahead of Danny Coyne.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} In December 2010, he signed a new contract with Middlesbrough up to 2015.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.gazettelive.co.uk/news/local-news/new-boro-deal-goalkeeper-jason-3694611 |title=New Boro deal for goalkeeper Jason Steele |newspaper=Evening Gazette |location=Middlesbrough |date=13 December 2010 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> Due to a side muscle injury he picked up against [[Reading F.C.|Reading]] in March 2011, [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]] goalkeeper [[Paul Smith (footballer, born 1979)|Paul Smith]] was brought in to cover for Steele.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} Despite impressive performances from Smith, Steele regained his first-team spot for the last two matches of the [[2010–11 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2010–11 season]], in which he kept clean sheets in both games against [[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]] and [[Doncaster Rovers F.C.|Doncaster Rovers]].{{citation needed|date=June 2018}}

In the [[2011–12 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2011–12 season]], he fully established himself as Middlesbrough's first-choice goalkeeper.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} Despite [[Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C.|Wolverhampton Wanderers]] goalkeeper [[Carl Ikeme]] being brought in on loan at the start of the season, due to a broken wrist for Steele, he quickly regained his first-team place.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} Steele went on to win the Young Player of the Year award for the 2011–12 season.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}}

He started the [[2012–13 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2012–13 season]] well, putting in man-of-the-match performances against [[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]] (in which he got an assist), [[Watford F.C.|Watford]] and [[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.|Brighton & Hove Albion]].{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} He continued his good form into 2013, saving a penalty against [[Blackpool F.C.|Blackpool]] when the score was at 3–2, and Middlesbrough went on to win the match 4–2.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/20823204 |title=Middlesbrough 4–2 Blackpool |publisher=BBC Sport |date=29 December 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> Steele's impressive form during the 2012/13 season, as well as his form in the previous season, was rewarded when he was named the North East Football Writers' Young player of the Year in February 2013.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.mfc.co.uk/page/news/latest/0,,1~3052029,00.html |title=Writers' award for Jason |publisher=Middlesbrough F.C. |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20130227034357/http://www.mfc.co.uk/page/news/latest/0,,1~3052029,00.html |archive-date=27 February 2013 |url-status=dead}}</ref> He finished the season being the only player to have played in every minute of Middlesbrough's league campaign.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} Steele also won both the Young Player and Player of the Season awards which was picked by both his teammates and staff at the club.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.gazettelive.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/jason-steele-bags-two-awards-3665133 |title=Jason Steele bags two awards at end-of-season official award ceremony |first=Anthony |last=Vickers |newspaper=Evening Gazette |location=Middlesbrough |date=5 May 2013 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref>

===Blackburn Rovers===
On 1 September 2014, Steele joined [[EFL Championship|Championship]] club [[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]] on a season-long loan.<ref name=brloan>{{cite web |url=https://www.mfc.co.uk/news/boro-goalkeeper-jason-steele-makes-deadline-day-switch-to-blackburn |title=Boro goalkeeper Jason Steele Makes Deadline Day Switch To Blackburn |publisher=Middlesbrough F.C. |date=1 September 2014 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> He made his debut on 20 September 2014 in a 1–0 win away to [[Fulham F.C.|Fulham]].<ref name=sb1415/> Steele quickly made an impact, which included him establishing himself as first-choice goalkeeper and making 15 league appearances during his initial loan spell.<ref name=sb1415/> On 31 December 2014, Steele signed a permanent deal with Blackburn for an undisclosed fee, signing a three-and-a-half-year deal.<ref name=brperm>{{cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/30646643 |title=Patrick Bamford: Middlesbrough extend loan for rest of season |publisher=BBC Sport |date=31 December 2014 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref><ref>{{cite news |url=http://www.lancashiretelegraph.co.uk/sport/11763016.I_wanted_Ryan_Tunnicliffe_deal_admits_Blackburn_Rovers_boss_Gary_Bowyer/ |title=I wanted Ryan Tunnicliffe deal admits Blackburn Rovers boss Gary Bowyer |first=Paul |last=Wheelock |newspaper=Lancashire Telegraph |location=Blackburn |date=31 January 2015 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> At the end of the [[2014–15 Football League Championship|2014–15 season]], Steele made 31 appearances.<ref name=sb1415/>

In the [[2015–16 Football League Championship|2015–16 season]], Steele made 41 appearances in the Championship, it was [[David Raya]] who played the other 5 matches that league campaign.<ref name=sb1516/> That season saw Blackburn finish fifteenth, 15 points adrift from the relegation zone,<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/36176274|title=Blackburn Rovers 3–1 Reading|publisher=[[BBC Sport]]|date=7 May 2016|access-date=15 February 2020}}</ref> as well as a managerial change occurring which saw heavily-experienced [[Premier League]] coach [[Paul Lambert]] replace [[Gary Bowyer]].<ref>{{Cite news |title=Club statement |url=http://www.rovers.co.uk/news/article/paul-lambert-blackburn-rovers-2802333.aspx |publisher=Blackburn Rovers FC |date=15 November 2015}}</ref> Steele was notable for his singular assist and yellow card during that Championship league campaign.<ref name="www.rovers.co.uk">{{cite web |url=http://www.rovers.co.uk/stats/player-stats/ |title=Player Statistics |publisher=Blackburn Rovers |date=May 2015 |access-date=21 May 2015 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120810033947/http://www.rovers.co.uk/stats/player-stats/ |archive-date=10 August 2012 |url-status=dead }}</ref>

Similar playing statistics occurred the [[2016–17 EFL Championship|following season]], in which Steele played 41 times in the Championship whereas Raya appeared 5 times.<ref name="www.rovers.co.uk"/> In a high points-scoring season from all 24 teams in the league, Blackburn suffered relegation to [[EFL League One|League One]], finishing the Championship campaign with 51 points, only qualifying for relegation on a goal difference by 2 goals: Blackburn finishing on −12 and [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]] finishing on −10.<ref name=lastgame>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/39760414|title=Brentford 1–3 Blackburn Rovers|publisher=BBC Sport|date=7 May 2017}}</ref> His final game for Blackburn was a 2–0 defeat to [[Barnsley F.C.|Barnsley]] at [[Ewood Park]] on 8 April 2017.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/39462929|title=Blackburn Rovers 0–2 Barnsley|publisher=BBC Sport|date=8 April 2017}}</ref>

===Sunderland===
Steele signed for newly relegated Championship club [[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]] on 26 July 2017 on a four-year contract for an undisclosed fee, reported to be in the region of £500,000.<ref name=sunderland>{{cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/40716820 |title=Bournemouth's Lewis Grabban & Blackburn's Jason Steele join Sunderland |publisher=BBC Sport |date=26 July 2017 |access-date=21 June 2018}}</ref> Steele made his official league debut against [[Derby County F.C.|Derby County]] on 4 August, in which they recorded a 1–1 draw in the first game of the [[2017–18 EFL Championship|2017–18 season]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/40748928|title=Sunderland 1–1 Derby County|publisher=BBC Sport|date=4 August 2017}}</ref> Prior to that, Steele had been between the posts in a heavy 5–0 defeat to [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]] in a pre season friendly at the [[Stadium of Light]], in which he was criticised alongside his teammates due to their disappointing performance, which saw Sunderland bring in [[Robbin Ruiter]] to compete with Steele for the first-choice goalkeeper role.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.safc.com/news/team-news/2017/july/celtic/report-v-celtic|title=Sunderland 0–5 Celtic|date=29 July 2017 |publisher=SAFC}}</ref><ref>{{Cite news|url=https://www.safc.com/news/team-news/2017/july/ruiter-signs-for-sunderland|title=Ruiter Signs For Sunderland|publisher=Sunderland Official Site|date=2 August 2017|access-date=2 August 2017}}</ref>

In the winter transfer window, Steele was set to join fellow Championship side Derby County on loan, after Sunderland allowed the goalkeeper to leave on transfer deadline day following the signing of [[Lee Camp (footballer)|Lee Camp]] from [[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]] on loan.<ref name=derby>{{cite news|url=https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/jason-steeles-move-derby-county-14231019|title=Jason Steele's move to Derby County fell through at the last minute. Here's why|publisher=Chronicle Live|date=1 February 2018}}</ref> The deal would have seen Steele join the Rams on loan until the end of the season with an obligation to a permanent deal if the club were to achieve promotion to the [[Premier League]].<ref name=derby/> However, Derby had decided to change the deal at the last minute, in which they were unprepared to complete a permanent deal, which suddenly resulted in the deal falling through.<ref name=derby/>

After a very disappointing season, Sunderland were relegated to [[EFL League One|League One]] on 21 April 2018.<ref name=l1again>{{Cite news|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/43762308|title=Sunderland 1–2 Burton Albion|publisher=BBC Sport|date=21 April 2018}}</ref> This meant that Steele had suffered two consecutive relegations as a player while Sunderland had suffered from two consecutive relegations as a club.<ref name=l1again/> That season saw Steele appear for the club 15 times in the Championship.<ref name=sb1718/> The club's season was followed in the production of a [[Netflix]] documentary, ''[[Sunderland 'Til I Die]]'', released on 14 December 2018.<ref name=documentary>{{Cite news |url=https://www.radiotimes.com/news/on-demand/2018-08-23/netflix-are-making-a-new-series-about-sunderland-football-club/ |title=Netflix is making a new series about Sunderland Football Club |last=Allen |first=Ben |date=23 August 2018 |work=Radio Times |access-date=29 January 2018 |language=en}}</ref> In the documentary, Steele explained that being a professional footballer resulted in many people putting pressure on himself and the entire squad to perform at their best.<ref name=documentary/>

===Brighton & Hove Albion===
Steele signed for [[Premier League]] club Brighton & Hove Albion on 21 June 2018 on a three-year contract for an undisclosed fee.<ref name=Brighton>{{cite news |url=https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/sunderlands-jason-steele-completes-move-14813258 |title=Sunderland's Jason Steele completes his move to Brighton and Hove Albion |first=James |last=Hunter |newspaper=Evening Chronicle |location=Newcastle upon Tyne |date=21 June 2018 |access-date=21 June 2018}}</ref> Steele eventually made his Brighton debut on 5 January 2019, in the 3–1 away win against [[AFC Bournemouth]] in the [[2018–19 FA Cup#Third round|FA Cup third round]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/av/football/46730661|title=FA Cup: AFC Bournemouth 1–3 Brighton & Hove Albion highlights|publisher=BBC Sport|date= 5 January 2019|access-date= 5 January 2019}}</ref>

His next appearance for Brighton came 20 months after his debut, playing and keeping a clean sheet in a 4–0 home victory over [[Portsmouth F.C.|Portsmouth]] in the [[2020–21 EFL Cup|EFL Cup]] on 17 September 2020.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/54097200| publisher=BBC Sport |title= Brighton fringe players impress in win | access-date=18 September 2020}}</ref> Six days later he made another appearance again keeping a clean sheet in another EFL Cup tie, this time a 2–0 away win over [[Preston North End]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/54190605|title=Preston North End 0–2 Brighton & Hove Albion: Seagulls set up Man Utd tie|publisher=BBC Sport |date=23 September 2020|access-date=23 September 2020}}</ref> However, his run in the league cup was ended on 30 September after a 3–0 home loss against [[Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United]] falling short of a quarter final place.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/54298218|title= Brighton 0–3 Man Utd: Paul Pogba strikes as United reach Carabao Cup quarters |publisher=BBC Sport |date=30 September 2020|access-date=30 September 2020}}</ref> His next match came on 10 January 2021, where he saved four penalties in a 4–3 penalty shootout win over [[Newport County A.F.C.|Newport County]] – after finishing 1–1 in 120 minutes of play – in the [[2020–21 FA Cup#Third round|FA Cup third round]]. Near the end of normal play, Steele mistimed a cross which landed onto teammate [[Adam Webster (footballer, born 1995)|Adam Webster]] conceding an own goal in the 96th minute taking it to extra time.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/55575529|title=Newport County 1–1(3–4 pens) Brighton & Hove Albion|publisher=BBC Sport |date=10 January 2021|access-date=10 January 2021}}</ref> A day later Steele extended his Brighton contract signing on until June 2023.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/1970550/steele-extends-albion-stay|title=Steele extends Albion stay|publisher=Brighton & Hove Albion |date=11 January 2021|access-date=20 January 2021}}</ref>

He captained the side for the first time and kept a clean sheet in Brighton's 2–0 [[2021–22 EFL Cup|EFL Cup second round]] away victory at [[Cardiff City F.C.|Cardiff City]] on 24 August 2021.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/58239552|title=Cardiff City 0–2 Brighton & Hove Albion: Seagulls into Carabao Cup third round |publisher=BBC Sport |date=24 August 2021 |access-date=24 August 2021}}</ref> Steele made his Premier League debut at the age of 31, after three years at the Albion, replacing the suspended [[Robert Sánchez]] in the away fixture at [[Aston Villa F.C.|Aston Villa]] on 20 November, where Brighton lost 2–0.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/59271462|title=Aston Villa 2–0 Brighton & Hove Albion: Steven Gerrard's side win through late Ollie Watkins and Tyrone Mings goals|publisher=BBC Sport |date=20 November 2021 |access-date=20 November 2021}}</ref>

Steele made two crucial saves in a 3–1 away victory against [[Arsenal F.C.|Arsenal]] in the [[2022–23 EFL Cup#Third round|EFL Cup third round]] on 9 November 2022.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/2900543/albion-come-from-behind-to-stun-arsenal|title=Albion come from behind to stun Arsenal|website=Brighton & Hove Albion|date=9 November 2022|access-date=19 January 2023}}</ref> On 7 January 2023, Steele played in a 5–1 away win over his former club Middlesbrough to go through to the [[2022–23 FA Cup#fourth round|FA Cup fourth round]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3012703/five-star-albion-cruise-into-the-fourth-round|title=Five-star Albion cruise into the fourth round|website=Brighton & Hove Albion|date=7 January 2023|access-date=19 January 2023|archive-date=7 January 2023|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20230107215557/https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3012703/five-star-albion-cruise-into-the-fourth-round|url-status=dead}}</ref> Three days later, it was confirmed by Brighton that Steele had signed a new contract with the club, committing his future in Sussex until June 2025.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3015347/jason-steele-signs-new-contract/|title=Jason Steele signs new contract|publisher=Brighton & Hove Albion |date=10 January 2023 |access-date=19 January 2023}}</ref> [[Roberto De Zerbi]] was eager for Steele to stay at the club with the goalkeeper stating that signing a new contract was an easy decision.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.sussexlive.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/brighton-contract-roberto-de-zerbi-8169537|title="Where's the pen?" – Brighton stalwart explains contract decision after Roberto De Zerbi talk – SussexLive|publisher=SussexLive |date=20 February 2023 |access-date=19 January 2023}}</ref> On 29 January, Steele was chosen to play over Sánchez where Brighton went on to defeat the defending champions Liverpool 2–1 at home in the fourth round of the [[2022–23 FA Cup|FA Cup]].<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3040813/its-magic-from-mitoma-as-albion-beat-liverpool-again|title=It's magic from Mitoma as Albion beat Liverpool again|publisher=Brighton & Hove Albion|date=29 January 2023|access-date=29 January 2023}}{{Dead link|date=September 2025 |bot=InternetArchiveBot }}</ref> He was selected ahead of the Spanish goalkeeper again on 4 March, this time in a Premier League tie at home against [[West Ham United]]. This was Steele's second Premier League appearance of his career – his first coming in November 2021 – keeping his first top flight clean sheet and making some crucial saves a 4–0 win.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3094104/irresistible-albion-hand-out-another-hammers-blow|title=Irresistible Albion hand out another Hammers blow|publisher=Brighton & Hove Albion|date=4 March 2023|access-date=4 March 2023|archive-date=3 January 2024|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20240103165718/https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3094104/irresistible-albion-hand-out-another-hammers-blow/|url-status=dead}}</ref> Steele was giving an extended run of game time, with De Zerbi saying he was "sad for Robert" [Sánchez] but that Steele is "playing better" and "maybe he is closer than Robert in my style."<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.90min.com/posts/jason-steele-sunderland-till-i-die-brighton-charge-europe|title=Jason Steele: From Sunderland Till I Die to Brighton's charge for Europe|publisher=90 min|date=7 March 2023|access-date=15 March 2023}}</ref> After a 2–2 away draw against [[Leeds United F.C.|Leeds United]] on 11 March, he earned his second clean sheet four days later, in his second Premier League game at Falmer Stadium in a 1–0 home win over [[Crystal Palace F.C.|Crystal Palace]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=Mac Allister and March on target but Albion are held|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3103193/mac-allister-and-march-on-target-but-albion-are-held|date=11 March 2023|access-date=15 March 2023|website=Brighton & Hove Albion|language=en-GB}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|title=Super Solly sinks Palace as Albion March on|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3111017/super-solly-sinks-palace-as-albion-march-on|date=15 March 2023|access-date=15 March 2023|website=Brighton & Hove Albion|language=en-GB|archive-date=15 March 2023|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20230315215722/https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3111017/super-solly-sinks-palace-as-albion-march-on|url-status=dead}}</ref> 

On 1 April 2023, Steele assisted [[Kaoru Mitoma]]'s equaliser – Brighton's first of three – with the [[Japan national football team|Japanese international]] racing onto his long ball and scoring in the eventual 3–3 home draw against [[Brentford F.C.|Brentford]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=Brighton 3–3 Brentford: Alexis Mac Allister penalty earns hosts point in six goal-thriller|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/65073161|date=1 April 2023|access-date=1 April 2023|website=BBC Sport|language=en-GB}}</ref> Steele was ruled out of the 2–1 victory at [[Chelsea F.C.|Chelsea]] on 15 April due to a minor injury and was benched for the FA Cup semi-final on the 23 April in which Brighton lost on penalties at Wembley against [[Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United]].<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.sussexexpress.co.uk/sport/football/brighton-and-hove-albion/left-out-jason-steele-absence-explained-for-brighton-at-chelsea-4105584|title='Left out' – Jason Steele absence explained for Brighton at Chelsea|work=Sussex World|date=15 April 2023|access-date=26 April 2023}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3231077/its-wembley-heartbreak-as-albion-are-beaten-on-penalties|title=It's Wembley heartbreak as Albion are beaten on penalties|website=Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.|date=23 April 2023|access-date=24 April 2023|archive-date=19 January 2024|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20240119172402/https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3231077/its-wembley-heartbreak-as-albion-are-beaten-on-penalties|url-status=dead}}</ref> He made his return to action three days later, where he made his first penalty save in the Premier League keeping out [[Brennan Johnson]]'s effort, but later conceded a [[Morgan Gibbs-White]] penalty in the 3–1 loss at [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]].<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3237654/albion-felled-by-forest|title=Albion felled by Forest|publisher=Brighton & Hove Albion|date=26 April 2023|access-date=26 April 2023|archive-date=26 April 2023|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20230426204036/https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3237654/albion-felled-by-forest/|url-status=dead}}</ref> On 8 May, Steele scored his first Premier League own goal in a 5–1 defeat against [[Everton F.C.|Everton]] at Falmer Stadium.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3327398/a-night-to-forget-for-albion|title=A night to forget for Albion |publisher=Brighton & Hove Albion|date=8 May 2023|access-date=8 May 2023}}</ref> He continued as number one goalkeeper for Brighton playing in the remaining matches of the season as Brighton finished sixth, qualifying for the [[2023–24 UEFA Europa League]], their first ever European qualification.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/news/3448240|title=Europe Here We Come!|publisher=Brighton & Hove Albion|date=21 May 2023|access-date=7 August 2023}}</ref><ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/65290302|title=Brighton 1–1 Manchester City: Julio Enciso scores stunning equaliser to seal Europa League place|publisher=BBC Sport|date=24 May 2023|access-date=7 August 2023}}</ref>

==International career==
===England youth===
Steele was born in England and is of Scottish descent.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.footballscotland.co.uk/spfl/other-football/jason-steele-scotland-snub-steve-27052680|title=Jason Steele Scotland snub as Steve Clarke admits Brighton keeper not interested|first=Blair|last=Meikle|date=4 June 2023|website=Football Scotland}}</ref> He has competed for the England [[England national under-16 football team|under-16s]], [[England national under-17 football team|under-17s]] and [[England national under-19 football team|under-19s]].{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} He joined the under-19s in September 2007, a month after his 17th birthday.{{citation needed|date=June 2018}} In July 2009, Steele competed as starting goalkeeper for England under-19s in the [[2009 UEFA European Under-19 Championship]] in Ukraine.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.mfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/News/NewsDetail/0,,1~1728983,00.html |title=Boro due set for action |publisher=Middlesbrough F.C. |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20090725200029/http://www.mfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/News/NewsDetail/0,,1~1728983,00.html |archive-date=25 July 2009 |url-status=dead}}</ref> Steele captained the team against the hosts, [[Ukraine national under-19 football team|Ukraine]].<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.mfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/News/NewsDetail/0,,1~1732467,00.html |title=Jason looks to step it up |publisher=Middlesbrough F.C. |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20090828230611/http://www.mfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/News/NewsDetail/0,,1~1732467,00.html |archive-date=28 August 2009 |url-status=dead}}</ref>

Steele made his first [[England national under-21 football team|under-21s]] appearance on 16 November 2010, in a 2–0 away defeat to [[Germany national under-21 football team|Germany]] in a friendly.<ref name=U21>{{cite web |url=http://www.englandfootballonline.com/MatchRsl/MatchRslTmU21pg4.html |title=England's matches: The under-21s: 2010–20 |website=England Football Online |publisher=Chris Goodwin, Glen Isherwood & Peter Young |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> He was sent off after 58 minutes after fouling [[Boris Vukčević]], having only come on as a half-time [[Substitute (association football)|substitute]].<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.theguardian.com/football/2010/nov/16/england-under-21-germany-report |title=Henri Lansbury goes in goal as England Under-21s lose to Germany |newspaper=The Guardian |location=London |date=16 November 2010 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> His second appearance for the under-21s came almost two years later on 10 September 2012 as a starter in a [[2013 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualification]] match against [[Norway national under-21 football team|Norway]],<ref name=U21/> in which he kept a clean sheet in a 1–0 win.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/19547219 |title=England U-21 1–0 Norway U-21 |publisher=BBC Sport |date=10 September 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref>

Steele was named in the 23-man squad for the [[2013 UEFA European Under-21 Championship]].<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.mfc.co.uk/page/news/latest/0,,1~3179513,00.html |title=Jason off to Israel |publisher=Middlesbrough F.C. |archive-url=https://archive.today/20130707050738/http://www.mfc.co.uk/page/news/latest/0,,1~3179513,00.html |archive-date=7 July 2013 |url-status=dead |access-date=2 June 2013}}</ref> He made one appearance at the tournament, playing in a 1–0 defeat to [[Israel national under-21 football team|Israel]] in England's last group match.<ref name=U21/> He made seven appearances for the under-21s from 2010 to 2013.<ref name=U21/>

===Great Britain Olympic===
Steele was named in the 18-man [[Great Britain men's Olympic football team|Great Britain]] squad for the [[Football at the 2012 Summer Olympics – Men's tournament|2012 Summer Olympics]] in London.<ref name=teamgb>{{cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/olympics/18675124 |title=London 2012: Tom Cleverley in Team GB football squad |publisher=BBC Sport |date=2 July 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> He started in a friendly against [[Brazil national under-23 football team|Brazil]] before the tournament, playing the first half of a 2–0 defeat at the [[Riverside Stadium]].<ref name=olympics>{{cite news |url=https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/olympics/football/9416665/London-2012-Olympics-Great-Britain-0-Brazil-2.html |title=London 2012 Olympics: Great Britain 0 Brazil 2 |first=Duncan |last=White |newspaper=The Daily Telegraph |location=London |date=20 July 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref> He was the only member of the squad to not play during the tournament, with [[Jack Butland]] keeping him out of the team, and was an unused substitute in all four matches as Great Britain reached the quarter-final.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/olympics/football/9430902/London-2012-Olympics-Great-Britain-1-Senegal-1.html |first=Henry |last=Winter |title=London 2012 Olympics: Great Britain 1 Senegal 1 |newspaper=The Daily Telegraph |location=London |date=26 July 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}<br />{{cite news |url=https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/olympics/football/9437204/London-2012-Olympics-Great-Britain-overcome-UAE-to-set-up-Uruguay-decider.html |first=Henry |last=Winter |title=London 2012 Olympics: Great Britain overcome UAE to set up Uruguay decider |newspaper=The Daily Telegraph |location=London |date=30 July 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}<br />{{cite news |url=https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/olympics/football/9445523/London-2012-Olympics-Great-Britain-1-Uruguay-0-match-report.html |first=Henry |last=Winter |title=London 2012 Olympics: Great Britain 1 Uruguay 0 – Match report |newspaper=The Daily Telegraph |location=London |date=2 August 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}<br />{{cite news |url=https://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/olympics/football/9452962/London-2012-Olympics-Team-GB-1-South-Korea-1-aet-4-5-pens-match-report.html |first=Henry |last=Winter |title=London 2012 Olympics; Team GB 1 South Korea 1 aet (4–5 pens): Match report |newspaper=The Daily Telegraph |location=London |date=4 August 2012 |access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref>

===England senior===
In March 2026, Steele received his first call-up to the [[England national football team|England senior squad]], ahead of [[Friendly (association football)|friendlies]] against [[Uruguay national football team|Uruguay]] and [[Japan national football team|Japan]].<ref>{{cite web|website=[[BBC Sport]]|date=20 March 2026|access-date=20 March 2026|title='Last opportunity to impress' - Tuchel names 35-man England squad|last1=Salley|first1=Emily|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/articles/cre1d33gr3no}}</ref>

==Personal life==
In the documentary series ''[[Sunderland 'Til I Die]]'', it was shown that Steele has two sons.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9430704/?ref_=ttep_ep1|title=Sunderland 'Til I Die – Series 1, Episode 1 – "Blinded by the Light"|publisher=[[Internet Movie Database]]|access-date=15 February 2020}}</ref> Steele is related to fellow footballer [[Lewis Wing]] who plays for [[Reading F.C.|Reading]], he too is a former Middlesbrough player, but their spells at the club did not overlap.<ref name="Jason Steele">{{cite web | url=http://www.gazettelive.co.uk/sport/football/transfer-news/lewis-wing-a-set-piece-12873032 |title=Lewis Wing: 'A set-piece specialist who always hits the target' – lowdown on Middlesbrough signing |last=Steel |first=Adam |work=TeessideLive |publisher=Reach plc |date=10 April 2017 |access-date=24 August 2017 }}</ref>

==Career statistics==

===Club===
{{updated|match played 14 February 2026}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|[[FA Cup]]
!colspan="2"|[[EFL Cup|League Cup]]
!colspan="2"|Europe 
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals 
|-
|rowspan="9"|[[Middlesbrough F.C.|Middlesbrough]]
|[[2007–08 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2007–08]]<ref name=sb0708>{{soccerbase season|48237|2007|access-date=21 June 2014}}</ref>
|[[Premier League]]
|0||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||0||0
|-
|[[2008–09 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2008–09]]<ref name=sb0809>{{soccerbase season|48237|2008|access-date=21 June 2014}}</ref>
|Premier League
|0||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||0||0
|-
|[[2009–10 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2009–10]]<ref name=sb0910>{{soccerbase season|48237|2009|access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref>
|[[EFL Championship|Championship]]
|0||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||0||0
|-
|[[2010–11 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2010–11]]<ref name=sb1011>{{soccerbase season|48237|2010|access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref>
|Championship
|35||0||0||0||2||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||37||0
|-
|[[2011–12 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2011–12]]<ref name=sb1112>{{soccerbase season|48237|2011|access-date=21 June 2014}}</ref>
|Championship
|34||0||2||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||36||0
|-
|[[2012–13 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2012–13]]<ref name=sb1213>{{soccerbase season|48237|2012|access-date=21 June 2014}}</ref>
|Championship
|46||0||3||0||4||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||53||0
|-
|[[2013–14 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2013–14]]<ref name=sb1314>{{soccerbase season|48237|2013|access-date=21 June 2014}}</ref>
|Championship
|16||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||16||0
|-
|[[2014–15 Middlesbrough F.C. season|2014–15]]<ref name=sb1415/>
|Championship
|0||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||0||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!131!!0!!5!!0!!6!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!142!!0
|-
|[[Northampton Town F.C.|Northampton Town]] (loan)
|[[2009–10 Northampton Town F.C. season|2009–10]]<ref name=sb0910/>
|[[EFL League Two|League Two]]
|13||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||13||0
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Blackburn Rovers F.C.|Blackburn Rovers]]
|[[2014–15 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2014–15]]<ref name=sb1415>{{soccerbase season|48237|2014|access-date=22 June 2018}}</ref>
|Championship
|31||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||31||0
|-
|[[2015–16 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2015–16]]<ref name=sb1516>{{soccerbase season|48237|2015|access-date=17 July 2017}}</ref>
|Championship
|41||0||3||0||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||45||0
|-
|[[2016–17 Blackburn Rovers F.C. season|2016–17]]<ref name=sb1617>{{soccerbase season|48237|2016|access-date=17 July 2017}}</ref>
|Championship
|41||0||2||0||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||44||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!113!!0!!5!!0!!2!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!120!!0
|-
|[[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]]
|[[2017–18 Sunderland A.F.C. season|2017–18]]<ref name=sb1718>{{soccerbase season|48237|2017|access-date=21 June 2018}}</ref>
|Championship
|15||0||1||0||2||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||18||0
|-
|rowspan="9"|[[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.|Brighton & Hove Albion]]
|[[2018–19 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2018–19]]<ref name="sb1819">{{soccerbase season|48237|2018|access-date=5 January 2019}}</ref>
|Premier League
|0||0||1||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||1||0
|-
|[[2019–20 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2019–20]]<ref name="sb1920">{{soccerbase season|48237|2019|access-date=15 July 2020}}</ref>
|Premier League
|0||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||0||0
|-
|[[2020–21 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2020–21]]<ref name=sb2021>{{soccerbase season|48237|2020|access-date=18 September 2020}}</ref>
|Premier League
|0||0||1||0||3||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||4||0
|-
|[[2021–22 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2021–22]]<ref name=sb2122>{{soccerbase season|48237|2021|access-date=24 August 2021}}</ref>
|Premier League
|1||0||0||0||3||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||4||0
|-
|[[2022–23 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2022–23]]<ref name=sb2223>{{soccerbase season|48237|2022|access-date=10 August 2022}}</ref>
|Premier League
|15||0||3||0||3||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||21||0
|-
|[[2023–24 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2023–24]]<ref name=sb2324>{{soccerbase season|48237|2023|access-date=12 August 2023}}</ref>
|Premier League
|17||0||1||0||0||0||5{{efn|name=UEL|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa League]]}}||0||colspan="2"|—||23||0
|-
|[[2024–25 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2024–25]]<ref name=sb2425>{{soccerbase season|48237|2024|access-date=18 September 2024}}</ref>
|Premier League
|2||0||1||0||2||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||5||0
|-
|[[2025–26 Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. season|2025–26]]<ref name=sb2526>{{soccerbase season|48237|2025|access-date=27 August 2025}}</ref>
|Premier League
|0||0||2||0||3||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||5||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!35!!0!!9!!0!!14!!0!!5!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!63!!0
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. Reserves and Academy|Brighton & Hove Albion
<br> Reserves & Academy]]
|2018–19<ref name="sb1819"/>
|colspan="3"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|name=EFLT|Appearance(s) in [[EFL Trophy]]}}||0||1||0
|-
|2019–20<ref name="sb1920"/>
|colspan="3"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||3{{efn|name=EFLT}}||0||3||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—||4!!0!!4!!0
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!307!!0!!20!!0!!24!!0!!5!!0!!4!!0!!360!!0
|}
{{notelist}}

==Honours==
'''England U19'''
*[[UEFA European Under-19 Championship]] runner-up: [[2009 UEFA European Under-19 Championship|2009]]<ref>{{cite web |url=http://en.archive.uefa.com/competitions/under19/fixturesresults/round=15215/match=2001285/report=lu.html |title=England 0–2 Ukraine: Lineups |publisher=UEFA |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151219192059/http://en.archive.uefa.com/competitions/under19/fixturesresults/round=15215/match=2001285/report=lu.html |archive-date=19 December 2015}}</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* [https://www.brightonandhovealbion.com/pages/en/player-detail-statistics-goalkeeper/49262 Jason Steele] at [[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.]]
* {{Premier League player}}
* {{Soccerbase}}
* {{Team GB|jason-steele|archive=20130830035212}}
* {{Olympics.com profile|jason-steele}}
* {{Olympedia}}

{{Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. squad}}
{{Great Britain men's football squad 2012 Summer Olympics}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Steele, Jason}}
[[Category:1990 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:People from Newton Aycliffe]]
[[Category:Footballers from County Durham]]
[[Category:English men's footballers]]
[[Category:England men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:England men's under-21 international footballers]]
[[Category:English people of Scottish descent]]
[[Category:Men's association football goalkeepers]]
[[Category:Middlesbrough F.C. players]]
[[Category:Northampton Town F.C. players]]
[[Category:Blackburn Rovers F.C. players]]
[[Category:Sunderland A.F.C. players]]
[[Category:Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. players]]
[[Category:English Football League players]]
[[Category:Premier League players]]
[[Category:Olympic footballers for Great Britain]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics]]
[[Category:21st-century English sportsmen]]