{{Short description|Footballer (born 2000)}}
{{distinguish|Mario Pašalić}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=March 2022}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Marco Pašalić
| image = Marco Pašalić (cropped).jpg
| caption = Pašalić with [[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]] in 2025
| full_name = 
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|2000|9|14|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Karlsruhe]], Germany<ref name=WF>{{WorldFootball.net|marco-pasalic}}</ref>
| height = 1.77 m<ref name=WF/>
| position = [[Midfielder#Winger|Right winger]]
| currentclub = [[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]
| clubnumber = 87
| youthyears1 = 
| youthclubs1 = [[SV Sandhausen]]
| youthyears2 = 
| youthclubs2 = [[Karlsruher SC]]
| youthyears3 = 
| youthclubs3 = SG Siemens Karlsruhe
| youthyears4 = {{0|0000}}–2016
| youthclubs4 = [[TSG 1899 Hoffenheim|TSG Hoffenheim]]
| youthyears5 = 2016–2019
| youthclubs5 = [[Karlsruher SC]]
| youthyears6 = 2019–2021
| youthclubs6 = [[VfB Stuttgart]]
| years1 = 2020–2021
| clubs1 = [[VfB Stuttgart II]]
| caps1 = 35
| goals1 = 8
| years2 = 2021–2023
| clubs2 = [[Borussia Dortmund II]]
| caps2 = 35
| goals2 = 6
| years3 = 2021–2023
| clubs3 = [[Borussia Dortmund]]
| caps3 = 1
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2023–2025
| clubs4 = [[HNK Rijeka]]
| caps4 = 49
| goals4 = 10
| years5 = 2025–
| clubs5 = [[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]
| caps5 = 43
| goals5 = 14
| nationalyears1 = 2016
| nationalteam1 = [[Croatia national under-17 football team|Croatia U17]]
| nationalcaps1 = 1
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2021–2022
| nationalteam2 = [[Croatia national under-21 football team|Croatia U21]]
| nationalyears3 = 2023–
| nationalteam3 = [[Croatia national football team|Croatia]]
| nationalgoals3 = 1
| nationalcaps3 = 15
| nationalcaps2 = 4
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| club-update = 15:11, 24 May 2026 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 22:31, 7 June 2026 (UTC)
}}
'''Marco Pašalić''' ({{IPA|hr|mâːrko pǎʃalitɕ}};<ref>{{cite web|url=http://hjp.znanje.hr/index.php?show=search_by_id&id=e1xuWxg%3D|title=Mȃrko|quote=Mȃrko|website=Hrvatski jezični portal|access-date=28 August 2021|language=hr}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=http://hjp.znanje.hr/index.php?show=search_by_id&id=eV9nXhA%3D&keyword=pa%C5%A1a|title=pȁša<sup>2</sup>|quote=Pašàlīć|website=Hrvatski jezični portal|access-date=28 August 2021|language=hr}}</ref> born 14 September 2000) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Midfielder#Winger|right winger]] for [[Major League Soccer]] club [[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]. Born in Germany, he plays for the [[Croatia national football team|Croatia national team]].<ref>[https://hns-cff.hr/en/players/422690/marco-pasalic/ Croatian Football Federation]</ref>

Pašalić is a product of six different German academies, but graduated from the academy of [[VfB Stuttgart]]. In Pašalić's initial years as a professional footballer, he spent most of his time playing for the [[German reserve football teams|reserve teams]] of VfB Stuttgart and [[Borussia Dortmund]] respectively. In 2022, Pašalić made his [[Bundesliga]] debut, which would ultimately be his only appearance in the league thus far. The following year, Pašalić moved to Croatia and joined [[HNK Rijeka]]. In 2023, Pašalić made his debut for the Croatia national team, and the following year he was named to Croatia's [[UEFA Euro 2024]] squad. After two seasons in Croatia, he joined Major League Soccer franchise Orlando City in 2025 as a [[Designated Player Rule|designated player]] and in his debut season he was named to the [[2025 MLS All-Star Game#MLS All-Stars|MLS All-Star]] team.

==Club career==
===Early career===
Pašalić received his early training in his hometown with [[Karlsruher SC]] and SG Siemens Karlsruhe, as well as in the youth teams of [[SV Sandhausen]] and [[TSG 1899 Hoffenheim]]. In 2016, he returned to Karlsruher, where he played for three years. Following trial training sessions at [[FC Bayern Munich|Bayern Munich]] and [[NK Osijek]], he joined [[VfB Stuttgart II]], the reserve team of [[VfB Stuttgart]], in 2019.<ref name="auto">{{cite web |last=Wozniak |first=Krystian |date=21 May 2021 |title=BVB: U23 verpflichtet Top-Talent vom VfB |url=https://www.reviersport.de/fussball/regionalliga/a522180---.html |publisher=RevierSport |language=de}}</ref>

=== VfB Stuttgart II ===
On 5 September 2020, Pašalić made his senior debut for VfB Stuttgart II in the [[Regionalliga Südwest]] division when he played the full match of a 2–0 loss at home to [[KSV Hessen Kassel|Hessen Kassel]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=5 September 2020 |title=Stuttgart II vs. Hessen Kessel |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2020/09/05/germany/regionalliga/vfb-stuttgart-1893-ev-ii/ksv-hessen-kassel/3310096/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> On 24 October, Pašalić scored his first senior goal, the reserve team's second in a 2–2 draw with [[Kickers Offenbach]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=Stuttgart II vs. Kickers Offenbach |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2020/10/24/germany/regionalliga/vfb-stuttgart-1893-ev-ii/kickers-offenbach-fc/3310206/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> Pašalić would go on to score eight goals across 24 appearances.<ref name=":0">{{Soccerway|marco-pasalic/494829}}</ref>

=== Borussia Dortmund II and Borussia Dortmund ===
On 21 May 2021, Pašalić announced on his [[Instagram]] that he would join [[3. Liga]] club [[Borussia Dortmund II]], the reserve team of [[Bundesliga]] club [[Borussia Dortmund]].<ref name="auto" /> On 24 July, Pašalić made his debut for the club when he started at [[FSV Zwickau]] on the opening matchweek of the [[2021–22 3. Liga]] season. The game would end 2–1 in Borussia Dortmund II's favor, with Pašalić coming off in the 78th-minute for [[Cebrail Makreckis]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=24 July 2021 |title=Zwickau vs. Borussia Dortmund II |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2021/07/24/germany/3-liga/fsv-zwickau/borussia-dortmund-ii/3532627/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref><ref>{{Cite news |last=Straub |first=Brian Szlenk |date=25 July 2021 |title=Borussia Dortmund II begin 3. Liga campaign with come from behind win over Zwickau |url=https://bvbbuzz.com/2021/07/25/borussia-dortmund-ii-begin-season-win-zwickau/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |work=BVB Buzz}}</ref> In the following matchweek, Pašalić scored his first goal for the club, the first goal of a 1–1 draw with [[SV Waldhof Mannheim|Waldhof Mannheim]] on 31 July.<ref>{{Cite web |date=31 July 2021 |title=Borussia Dortmund II vs. Waldhof Mannheim |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2021/07/31/germany/3-liga/borussia-dortmund-ii/sv-waldhof-mannheim-07/3532641/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> After Pašalić scored two goals in three games for the reserve team, Borussia Dortmund coach [[Marco Rose]] called him into the squad for the [[2021 DFL-Supercup]] on 17 August. Pašalić entered as a 78th-minute substitute for [[Giovanni Reyna]] in the final phase of the 3–1 defeat against [[FC Bayern Munich|Bayern Munich]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bundesliga.com/en/bundesliga/matchday/2021-2022/supercup/borussia-dortmund-vs-fc-bayern-muenchen/liveticker |title=Borussia Dortmund 1–3 FC Bayern München |publisher=Bundesliga |date=17 August 2021 }}</ref> Pašalić would finish the season with two goals and one assist across 13 appearances.<ref>{{Cite web |title=2021–2022 3. Liga Player Stats |url=https://fbref.com/en/comps/59/2021-2022/stats/2021-2022-3-Liga-Stats |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=[[Sports Reference|FBref]]}}</ref>

In the following season on 8 November 2022, he made his [[Bundesliga]] debut for Borussia Dortmund under coach [[Edin Terzić]] in a 2–0 away defeat against [[VfL Wolfsburg]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.espn.co.uk/football/match/_/gameId/638562/borussia-dortmund-vfl-wolfsburg |title=VfL Wolfsburg 2–0 Borussia Dortmund |publisher=ESPN |date=8 November 2022}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |date=8 November 2022 |title=Wolfsburg vs. Borussia Dortmund |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2022/11/08/germany/bundesliga/vfl-wolfsburg/bv-borussia-09-dortmund/3801953/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> Across the season with the reserve team, Pašalić's playing time would more than double and he would increase his output to four goals across 22 appearances.<ref>{{Cite web |title=2022–2023 3. Liga Player Stats |url=https://fbref.com/en/comps/59/2022-2023/stats/2022-2023-3-Liga-Stats |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=[[Sports Reference|FBref]]}}</ref>

===HNK Rijeka===
On 22 June 2023, Pašalić moved to [[Croatian Football League]] club [[HNK Rijeka]] on a four-year contract.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://nk-rijeka.hr/marco-pasalic-potpisao-za-rijeku-srcem-sam-na-terenu-100-posto/ |title=Marco Pašalić potpisao za Rijeku: "Srcem sam na terenu 100 posto" |publisher=HNK Rijeka |language=hr |date=22 June 2023 }}</ref> On 27 June, Pašalić made his debut for the club and international debut in the [[2023–24 UEFA Europa Conference League#Qualifying rounds|qualifying rounds]] of the [[UEFA Conference League|UEFA Europa Conference League]] when he came on as a 69th-minute substitute for [[Alen Grgić]] in a 1–0 win over [[KF Dukagjini]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=27 June 2023 |title=Dukagjini vs. Rijeka |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2023/07/27/europe/uefa-europa-conference-league/dukagjini/hnk-rijeka/4086465/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> In the following leg on 3 August, Pašalić scored his first goal for the club when he scored the first goal of a 6–1 win.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.uefa.com/uefaconferenceleague/match/2038681/ |title=Rijeka 6–1 Dukagjini |publisher=UEFA |date=3 August 2023 }}</ref> Pašalić scored his first league goal for the club in the following match when he scored the third goal of a 6–0 rout of rivals [[NK Istra 1961|Istra 1961]] on 6 August.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Rijeka vs. Istra 1961 |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2023/08/06/croatia/1-hnl/hnk-rijeka/nk-istra-1961-pula/4080501/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> Pašalić would score six goals and make two assists across 30 league appearances in his first season with the club.<ref>{{Cite web |title=2023–2024 Hrvatska NL Player Stats |url=https://fbref.com/en/comps/63/2023-2024/stats/2023-2024-Hrvatska-NL-Stats |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=[[Sports Reference|FBref]]}}</ref>

On 25 June 2024, Pašalić made his [[UEFA Europa League]] debut in the [[2024–25 UEFA Europa League#Qualifying rounds|qualifying rounds]] of the tournament in goalless draw with [[FC Corvinul Hunedoara|Corvinul Hunedoara]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=25 July 2024 |title=Corvinul Hunedoara vs. Rijeka |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2024/07/25/europe/uefa-cup/corvinul/hnk-rijeka/4368713/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> On 18 September, Pašalić scored his first [[Croatian Football Cup|Croatian Cup]] goal when he scored the second goal of a 3–1 victory over [[NK Neretvanac Opuzen|Neretvanac]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=18 September 2024 |title=Neretvanac Opuzen vs. Rijeka |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2024/09/18/croatia/hr-nogometni-cup/nk-neretvanac-opuzen/hnk-rijeka/4525957/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref> On 22 October, Pašalić scored his first senior brace in a 3–0 win at NK Bednja Beletinec in the Croatian Football Cup.<ref>{{Cite web |date=18 September 2024 |title=Bednja vs. Rijeka |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2024/10/22/croatia/hr-nogometni-cup/bednja/hnk-rijeka/4534854/ |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=Soccerway}}</ref><ref name=":0" /> Pašalić ended his time with the club with four goals and three assists across 19 league appearances in his second season.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Hrvatska NL Player Stats |url=https://fbref.com/en/comps/63/stats/Hrvatska-NL-Stats |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=[[Sports Reference|FBref]]}}</ref>

=== Orlando City ===
On 5 February 2025, [[Major League Soccer]] club [[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]] announced the signing of Pašalić as a [[Designated Player Rule|Designated Player]] on a three-year contract with a club option to extend into 2028.<ref>{{Cite web |date=5 February 2025 |title=Orlando City SC acquires Croatian international Marco Pašalić as Designated Player |url=https://www.orlandocitysc.com/news/orlando-city-sc-acquires-croatian-international-marco-pasalic-as-designated-player |access-date=5 February 2025 |website=[[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]}}</ref> Pašalić made his debut in the opening match of the season against [[Philadelphia Union]], scoring a brace in a 4–2 loss.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Philadelphia 4-2 Orlando |url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/commentary/_/gameId/726805 |access-date=22 February 2025 |website=[[ESPN]]}}</ref> Pašalić's opening goal of the match which was scored in the 8th-minute was the fastest in any of Orlando City's home openers in MLS and the fastest goal for a club debut, beating [[Daryl Dike]]'s previous record in which he scored in the 17th-minute in 2020 against [[Inter Miami CF|Inter Miami]].<ref>{{Cite web |last=David |first=Austin |date=22 February 2025 |title=📸 Must-see: Marco Pašalić scores eight minutes into his Orlando City debut |url=https://www.orlandocitysc.com/news/must-see-marco-pasalic-scores-eight-minutes-into-his-orlando-city-debut |access-date=22 February 2025 |website=[[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]}}</ref> On 22 March, Pašalić scored the fourth goal of a 4–1 victory over [[D.C. United]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=March 22, 2025 |title=Match report: Orlando City SC dominates in 4-1 win over D.C. United |url=https://www.orlandocitysc.com/news/match-report-orlando-city-sc-dominates-in-4-1-win-over-d-c-united |access-date=March 27, 2025 |website=[[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]}}</ref> Pašalić's goal was voted [[2025 Major League Soccer season#Goal of the Matchday|Goal of the Matchday]] by fans four days later with 64.7% of the vote share.<ref>{{Cite web |date=March 26, 2025 |title=Orlando City SC's Marco Pašalić wins Goal of the Matchday |url=https://www.mlssoccer.com/news/orlando-city-sc-s-marco-pasalic-wins-goal-of-the-matchday |access-date=March 27, 2025 |website=[[Major League Soccer]]}}</ref> On 15 July, Pašalić was selected by head coach [[Nico Estévez]] to represent the league in the [[2025 MLS All-Star Game]] against the [[Liga MX|Liga MX All-Stars]] on July 23 at [[Q2 Stadium]] in [[Austin, Texas]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=15 July 2025 |title=Six players added to 2025 MLS All-Star Roster |url=https://www.mlssoccer.com/allstar/2025/news/six-players-added-to-2025-mls-all-star-roster-austin |access-date=15 July 2025 |website=[[Major League Soccer]]}}</ref> The MLS All-Stars would defeat the Liga MX All-Stars 3–1 with Pašalić coming on as a 34th-minute substitute for [[Hirving Lozano]] before being substituted off in the second half for Orlando City teammate [[Alex Freeman]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=July 23, 2025 |title=Back on top! MLS All-Stars top LIGA MX All-Stars in Austin |url=https://www.mlssoccer.com/allstar/2025/news/back-on-top-mls-all-stars-top-liga-mx-all-stars-in-austin |access-date=July 24, 2025 |website=[[Major League Soccer]]}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |title=MLSvsLMX 07-23-2025 |url=https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/mls-all-star-game/2025/matches/mlsvslmx-07-23-2025/ |access-date=July 24, 2025 |website=[[Major League Soccer]]}}</ref> In Pašalić's debut season in Major League Soccer, he contributed 16 goals and nine assists across all competitions for a total of 25 goal contributions, his most prolific season in his career thus far.<ref>{{Cite web |title=2025 Marco Pašalić Match Logs |url=https://fbref.com/en/players/1866b0f1/matchlogs/2025/Marco-Pasalic-Match-Logs |access-date=3 November 2025 |website=[[Sports Reference|FBref]]}}</ref> League writer Joseph Lowery described Pašalić as the ninth most impactful signing of the 2025 season.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Lowery |first=Joseph |date=December 12, 2025 |title=Ranking the 10 most impactful signings of the 2025 MLS season |url=https://www.mlssoccer.com/news/ranking-the-10-most-impactful-signings-of-the-2025-mls-season |access-date=December 12, 2025 |website=[[Major League Soccer]]}}</ref>

==International career==
Pašalić made appearances for the Croatian youth national teams of [[Croatia national under-17 football team|U17]], and [[Croatia national under-21 football team|U21]].

On 18 November 2023, Pašalić made his senior debut for [[Croatia national football team|Croatia]] in a 2–0 away win against [[Latvia national football team|Latvia]] during the [[UEFA Euro 2024 qualifying|Euro 2024 qualifying]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.croatiaweek.com/croatia-beats-latvia-to-take-big-step-towards-euro-2024/ |title=Croatia beats Latvia to take big step towards Euro 2024 |publisher=Croatia Week |date=18 November 2023 }}</ref> On 20 May 2024, he was selected in the 26-man squad for the [[UEFA Euro 2024]].<ref>{{cite news |date=20 May 2024 |title=Croatia head coach Dalić presents preliminary EURO 2024 squad |url=https://hns.team/en/news/27852/croatia-head-coach-dalic-presents-preliminary-euro-2024-squad/ |publisher=[[Croatian Football Federation]] |access-date=30 May 2024}}</ref> A few weeks later, on 3 June, he scored his first international goal in a 3–0 friendly victory over [[North Macedonia national football team|North Macedonia]] prior to the tournament.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://nk-rijeka.hr/hrvatska-sj-makedonija-30-pasalicev-prvijenac/ |title=Hrvatska – Sj. Makedonija 3:0, Pašalićev prvijenac |publisher=HNK Rijeka |language=hr |date=3 June 2024 }}</ref>

On 26 May 2025, Pašalić was called up by Croatia manager [[Zlatko Dalić]] for [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification (UEFA)|World Cup qualifiers]] matches against [[Gibraltar national football team|Gibraltar]] and [[Czech Republic national football team|Czech Republic]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=26 May 2025 |title=Dalić aktivirao pretpoziv Marcu Pašaliću |url=https://hns.team/vijesti/29511/dalic-aktivirao-pretpoziv-marcu-pasalicu/ |access-date=26 May 2025 |website=[[Croatian Football Federation]] |language=hr}}</ref> On 18 May 2026, Pašalić was selected by Dalić for the [[2026 FIFA World Cup]].<ref>{{Cite news |date=18 May 2026 |title=Croatia announces squad for 2026 World Cup |url=https://www.croatiaweek.com/croatia-squad-2026-world-cup/ |access-date=18 May 2026 |work=Croatia Week}}</ref>

== Personal life ==
Pašalić was born in [[Karlsruhe]] to a Croatian refugee family who fled to Germany to escape the [[Yugoslav Wars]] in the early 1990s. Pašalić stated that he was "grateful to grow up in Germany", but that he is "fully Croatian" and that he had always opted to play for Croatia internationally.<ref>{{Cite web |last=David |first=Austin |date=20 February 2025 |title=Marco Pašalić ready to bring his 'hard work' mentality to Orlando City |url=https://www.orlandocitysc.com/news/marco-pasalic-ready-to-bring-his-hard-work-mentality-to-orlando-city |access-date=21 February 2025 |website=[[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]}}</ref> Pašalić has two brothers, one of whom owns a construction company. As a teenager, Pašalić worked for the construction company after training sessions and would often work into the early morning hours, but his brother would allow him time to rest before the next training session.<ref>{{Cite web |last=Boehm |first=Charles |date=25 April 2025 |title=Marco Pašalić takes unlikely path to Orlando City: "I believe" |url=https://www.mlssoccer.com/news/marco-pasalic-takes-unlikely-path-to-orlando-city-i-believe |access-date=26 June 2025 |website=[[Major League Soccer]]}}</ref>

==Career statistics==

===Club===
{{updated|match played 23 May 2026}}<ref name=":0"/>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[DFB-Pokal]], [[Croatian Football Cup|Croatian Cup]], [[U.S. Open Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|Continental
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|[[VfB Stuttgart II]]
|[[2020–21 Regionalliga#Regionalliga Südwest|2020–21]]
|[[Regionalliga Südwest]]
|35||8||colspan="2"|—|| colspan="2" |—|| colspan="2" |—||35||8
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Borussia Dortmund II]]
|[[2021–22 3. Liga|2021–22]]
|[[3. Liga]]
|13||2||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||13||2
|-
|[[2022–23 3. Liga|2022–23]]
|3. Liga
|22||4||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||22||4
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!35!!6!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!35!!6
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Borussia Dortmund]]
|[[2021–22 Borussia Dortmund season|2021–22]]
|[[Bundesliga]]
|0||0||0||0||0||0||1{{efn|Appearance in [[DFL-Supercup]]}}||0||1||0
|-
|[[2022–23 Borussia Dortmund season|2022–23]]
|Bundesliga
|1||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||1||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!1!!0!!0!!0!!0!!0!!1!!0!!2!!0
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[HNK Rijeka]]
|[[2023–24 HNK Rijeka season|2023–24]]
|[[Croatian Football League|HNL]]
|30||6||5||0||6{{efn|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa Conference League]]}}||2||colspan="2"|—||41||8
|-
|[[2024–25 HNK Rijeka season|2024–25]]
|HNL
|19||4||2||3||6{{efn|Four appearances in [[UEFA Europa League]], two appearances in UEFA Conference League}}||0||colspan="2"|—||27||7
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!49!!10!!7!!3!!12!!2!!colspan="2"|—!!68!!15
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Orlando City SC|Orlando City]]
|[[2025 Orlando City SC season|2025]]
|[[Major League Soccer]]
|33||12||1||1||colspan="2"|—||7{{efn|Six appearances and two goals in [[Leagues Cup]], one appearance in [[MLS Cup playoffs]]}}||2||41||15
|-
|[[2026 Orlando City SC season|2026]]
|Major League Soccer
|10||2||1||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||11||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!43!!14!!2!!1!!colspan="2"|—!!7!!2!!52!!18
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!162!!37!!9!!4!!12!!2!!8!!2!!191!!46
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 7 June 2026}}<ref name=WF/><ref>{{NFT player|id=93010|access-date=}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
| rowspan="4" |[[Croatia national football team|Croatia]]
|2023|||2||0
|-
|2024|||3||1
|-
|2025
|6
|0
|-
|2026
|4
|0
|-
! colspan="2" |Total||15||1
|}

:''Scores and results list Croatia's goal tally first.''

{| class="wikitable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Marco Pašalić
! No. !! Date !! Venue !! Cap !! Opponent !! Score !! Result !! Competition
|-
! 1
| 3 June 2024 || [[Stadion Rujevica]], Rijeka, Croatia || align=center|5 || {{fb|MKD}} || align=center | 3–0 || align=center | 3–0 || [[Exhibition game|Friendly]]
|}

== Honours ==
'''Individual'''
* [[MLS All-Star Game|MLS All-Star]]: [[2025 MLS All-Star Game|2025]]<ref>{{Cite web |date=23 July 2025 |title=MLS & LIGA MX provide final rosters for 2025 MLS All-Star Game |url=https://www.mlssoccer.com/allstar/2025/news/mls-provides-final-roster-for-2025-mls-all-star-game |access-date=24 July 2025 |website=[[Major League Soccer]]}}</ref>

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* {{sports links}}

{{Orlando City SC squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Croatia squads
| bg = white
| fg = #171796
| bordercolor = red
| list1 =
{{Croatia squad UEFA Euro 2024}}
{{Croatia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Pasalic, Marco}}
[[Category:2000 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Karlsruhe]]
[[Category:German people of Croatian descent]]
[[Category:Croatian men's footballers]]
[[Category:German men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football forwards]]
[[Category:Croatia men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Croatia men's under-21 international footballers]]
[[Category:Croatia men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Regionalliga players]]
[[Category:3. Liga players]]
[[Category:First Football League (Croatia) players]]
[[Category:Bundesliga players]]
[[Category:Major League Soccer players]]
[[Category:VfB Stuttgart II players]]
[[Category:Borussia Dortmund II players]]
[[Category:Borussia Dortmund players]]
[[Category:HNK Rijeka players]]
[[Category:Orlando City SC players]]
[[Category:Designated Players (MLS)]]
[[Category:UEFA Euro 2024 players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:Croatian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Croatian expatriate sportspeople in Germany]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Germany]]
[[Category:21st-century German sportsmen]]