{{short description|Iraqi footballer}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=September 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Zaid Tahseen
| image = 
| image_size = 
| caption = 
| fullname = Zaid Tahseen Abd Zaid Hantoosh
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|df=yes|2001|01|29}}
| birth_place = [[Najaf]], [[Iraq]]
| height = 1.93m
| position = [[Center back]]
| currentclub = [[Pakhtakor FC|Pakhtakor]]
| clubnumber = 4
| clubs1 = [[Al-Najaf SC|Al-Najaf]]
| years1 = 2019–2020
| goals1 = 
| caps1 = 
| clubs2 = [[Naft Al-Wasat]]
| years2 = 2020–2021
| goals2 = 1
| caps2 = 31
| clubs3 = [[Al-Talaba]]
| years3 = 2021–2024
| goals3 = 13
| caps3 = 92
| clubs4 = [[Al Quwa Al Jawiya]]
| years4 = 2024-2025
| goals4 = 2
| caps4 = 30
| clubs5 = [[Pakhtakor FC|Pakhtakor]]
| years5 = 2025–
| goals5 = 1
| caps5 = 10
| nationalteam1 = [[Iraq national under-23 football team|Iraq U23]]
| nationalyears1 = 2021–2024
| nationalcaps1 = 26
| nationalgoals1 = 3
| nationalteam2 = [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
| nationalyears2 = 2022–
| nationalcaps2 = 23
| nationalgoals2 = 1
| medaltemplates = {{MedalSport|Men's [[Association football|football]]}}
{{MedalCountry|{{fb|IRQ}}}}
{{Medal|Competition|[[AFC U-23 Asian Cup]]}}
{{Medal|B|[[2024 AFC U-23 Asian Cup|2024 Qatar]]|[[2024 AFC U-23 Asian Cup squads#Uzbekistan|Team]]}}
| club-update = 5 December 2025
| nationalteam-update = 18 November 2025
}}

'''Zaid Tahseen Abd Zaid Hantoosh''' ({{langx|ar|زَيْد تَحْسِيْن عَبد زيد}}; born 29 January 2001) is an [[Iraq]]i [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[center back]] for [[Pakhtakor FC|Pakhtakor]] in the [[Uzbekistan Super League]] and the [[Iraq national football team|Iraq national team]].

==Club career==

=== Al Najaf ===

Tahseen started his career with his local side Al-Najaf. He signed for Amanat Baghdad ahead of the 2020-21 season, but Al Najaf disputed the legality of the transfer, which was then canceled and the player returned to Al Najaf.

=== Naft Al Wasat ===

Following his failed transfer to Amanat Baghdad, Tahseen returned to Al-Najaf, before agreeing to Join Naft Al Wasat. He scored his first goal for the club against [[Al-Hudood SC]], a 94th minute goal to win the match 2-1.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.facebook.com/share/p/14r1QqymZp/ |website=Naft Al Wasat official Facebook page |access-date=26 November 2024}}</ref> Tahseen was squad regular in the team as his side finished fifth in the league.

=== Al Talaba ===

Tahseen joined Bagdad side Al-Talaba ahead of the 2021-2022 season. He quickly impressed with his defensive prowess and goalscoring abilities, which earned him a call up to the national team. Tahseen scored his first goal against [[Al-Kahrabaa SC]] in a 2-2 draw. He would score two more league goals that season, as Al-Talaba finished in 3rd place. The [[2022–23 Iraqi Premier League|following season]], Tahseen scored 4 league goals as Al-Talaba slipped to 4th place in the league. Tahseen was awarded the player of the month award in April. He was voted to the team of the season by Arab football site Kooora<ref>{{cite web |title=كووورة يختار تشكيلة الموسم للدوري العراقي | date=24 July 2023 |url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=1256660 |access-date=26 November 2024}}</ref>

Tahseen renewed his contract with Al-Talaba ahead of the 2023-24 season.<ref>{{cite web |author1=Almaalouma |title=زيد تحسين يجدد الولاء للطلبة |work=Almaalouma |date=3 July 2023 |url=https://almaalomah.me/news/sports/%D8%B2%D9%8A%D8%AF-%D8%AA%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%8A%D9%86-%D9%8A%D8%AC%D8%AF%D8%AF-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%A1-%D9%84%D9%84%D8%B7%D9%84%D8%A8%D8%A9 |access-date=26 November 2024}}</ref> Tahseen was a permeant fixture in the side, being named the captain, but received criticism for some of his performances. His former manager [[Hassan Ahmed (footballer)|Hassan Ahmed]] described him as being "complacent and egotistical" following a 4-0 loss against Naft Maysan.<ref>{{cite web |title=
مدرب عراقي يتهم مدافع "أسود الرافدين" بالغرور.. ما السبب ؟ 
|work=winwin |url=https://www.winwin.com/كرة-قدم/الأخبار/مدرب-عراقي-يتهم-مدافع-أسود-الرافدين-بالغرور-ما-السبب؟ |trans-title=Iraqi coach accuses Lions of Mesopotamia defender of arrogance.. What's the reason? |language=ar |date=10 November 2023 |access-date=26 November 2024}}</ref> Tahseen became one of the team's penalty kick takers, where he scored 4 penalties from a total of 6 goals during the season, however Al-Talaba slipped further that season, finishing in 8th place.

=== Al Quwa Al Jawiya ===

On August 20, 2024, Tahseen joined Iraqi side Al Quwa Al Jawiya on a free transfer<ref>{{cite web |title=القوة الجوية يخطف زيد تحسين |work=صحيفة الخليج |url=https://www.alkhaleej.ae/2024-08-20/%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%82%D9%88%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AC%D9%88%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D9%8A%D8%AE%D8%B7%D9%81-%D8%B2%D9%8A%D8%AF-%D8%AA%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%8A%D9%86/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9-%D9%85%D8%AD%D9%84%D9%8A/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9 |access-date=26 November 2024}}</ref>

=== Pakhtakor ===
On 22 July 2025, [[Uzbekistan Super League]] club [[Pakhtakor FC|Pakhtakor]] announced the signing of Tahseen from [[Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya]], on a contract until the end of the 2026 season.<ref>{{cite web |title=Заид Таҳсин "Пахтакор" футболчисига айланди |url=https://www.instagram.com/p/DMZuoE2xDyD/?img_index=1 |website=instagram.com/pakhtakor_fc |publisher=Pakhtakor FC Instagram |access-date=22 July 2025 |language=Uzbek |date=22 July 2025}}</ref>

==International career==

===Iraq U-23===
In June 2023, Zaid was called up to the [[Iraq national under-23 football team|Iraq U-23]] national team for the [[2023 WAFF U-23 Championship]], which was being hosted in Iraq and which Iraq would win.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://ultrairaq.ultrasawt.com/%D9%82%D8%A7%D8%A6%D9%85%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D9%86%D8%AA%D8%AE%D8%A8-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D9%88%D9%84%D9%85%D8%A8%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A-%D8%AA%D8%B6%D9%85-6-%D9%85%D8%AD%D8%AA%D8%B1%D9%81%D9%8A%D9%86/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D8%B1%D8%A7-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82/%D9%85%D9%86%D9%88%D8%B9%D8%A7%D8%AA|title=قائمة المنتخب الأولمبي العراقي تضم 6 محترفين|date=5 June 2023|publisher=UltraIraq|language=Arabic|accessdate=2 August 2024}}</ref>

Tahseen was called up to the Asian Cup U23 Qualifiers, held in Kuwait, in which Iraq topped the group and qualified, with Tahseen scoring against Buhtan<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.alkhaleej.ae/2023-09-02/%D8%A5%D8%B9%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%86-%D9%82%D8%A7%D8%A6%D9%85%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D9%88%D9%84%D9%85%D8%A8%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D8%B5%D9%81%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%AA-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A2%D8%B3%D9%8A%D9%88%D9%8A%D8%A9/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A8%D9%8A/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9|title=إعلان قائمة الأولمبي العراقي في التصفيات الآسيوية|website=صحيفة الخليج}}</ref> He was also called up to the tournament proper. Tahseen captained the side to winning the bronze medal and qualifying to the [[Football at the 2024 Summer Olympics – Men's tournament|2024 Summer Olympic Games football Tournament]]. Tahseen was called up to the Olympic games and played in all three matches as Iraq crashed out of the group stages.

===Iraq===
On 26 September 2022, Tahseen made his first international cap with Iraq against [[Syria national football team|Syria]] in the [[2022 Jordan International Tournament]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.footballcritic.com/fifa-friendlies-iraq-oman/match-stats/2824629|title=Iraq vs Oman|publisher=footballcritic|accessdate=2 October 2022}}</ref>

Tahseen was part of the Iraq squad in the [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup]], which Iraq won on home soil.<ref>{{cite web |title=قائمة منتخب العراق النهائية لخليجي 25 |work=ملاعب |date=25 December 2022 |url=https://www.mala3eb.com/Section_108/%D9%85%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%B9%D8%A8-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%A9/%D9%82%D8%A7%D8%A6%D9%85%D8%A9-%D9%85%D9%86%D8%AA%D8%AE%D8%A8-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D9%87%D8%A7%D8%A6%D9%8A%D8%A9-%D9%84%D8%AE%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%AC%D9%8A-25_173836 |access-date=26 November 2024}}</ref>

In January 2024, he was selected in [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]'s 26-men squad for the [[2023 AFC Asian Cup]].<ref>{{cite web |title=شاهد: بطريقةٍ جديدةٍ.. مدربُ المنتخب الوطنيّ كاساس يعلنُ القائمةَ النهائية لكأسِ آسيا 2023 والمُؤلفة من 26 لاعباً|trans-title=Watch: National team coach Casas announces the final list for the 2023 Asian Cup, consisting of 26 players|url=https://twitter.com/IRAQFA/status/1740025730233421973|website=Twitter |publisher=Iraq Football Association|language=ar|date=27 December 2023|access-date=27 December 2023}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===International===
{{updated|match played 26 March 2024}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
|2022||2||0
|-
|2023||1||0
|-
|2024||5||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total||8||1
|}

{| class="wikitable sortable plainrowheaders"
|+International goals by date, venue, cap, opponent, score, result and competition
! scope="col" |No.
! scope="col" data-sort-type="date" |Date
! scope="col" |Venue
! scope="col" |Opponent
! scope="col" |Score
! scope="col" |Result
! scope="col" |Competition
|-
! scope="row" |1
|26 March 2024
|[[Rizal Memorial Stadium]], [[Manila]], Philippines
|{{fb|PHI}}
| align="center" |'''5'''–0
| align="center" |5–0
|[[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – AFC second round|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Pakhtakor'''
* [[Uzbekistan Cup]]: [[2025 Uzbekistan Cup|2025]]

'''Iraq U-23'''
* [[WAFF U-23 Championship]]: [[2023 WAFF U-23 Championship|2023]]

'''Iraq'''
* [[Arabian Gulf Cup]]: [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup|2023]]

'''Individual'''
* Iraq Stars League Player of the Month: April 2023

==References==
{{reflist}}

== External links ==
* {{Soccerway|new_id=tahseen-zaid/W2aahfYG}}
* {{Olympics.com|zaid-tahseen}}

{{Pakhtakor Tashkent FK squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Iraq squads
| bg          = #017B3D
| fg          = white
| bordercolor = black
| list =
{{Iraq squad 2023 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq men's football squad 2024 Summer Olympics}}
{{Iraq squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Tahseen, Zaid}}
[[Category:2001 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Iraqi men's footballers]]
[[Category:Iraq men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football defenders]]
[[Category:2023 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2024 Summer Olympics]]
[[Category:Olympic footballers for Iraq]]
[[Category:Uzbekistan Super League players]]
[[Category:Pakhtakor Tashkent FK players]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Uzbekistan]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]