{{short description|Scotland international footballer (born 1995)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=August 2016}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Lyndon Dykes
| image = First Minister meets with Scottish National Football Team - 55168603663 (cropped).jpg
| caption = Dykes in 2026 
| full_name = Lyndon John Dykes<ref>{{cite web |url=https://s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/gc-media-assets.gc.eflservices.co.uk/f9455bd0-4dac-11ee-8864-711544c578ce.pdf |title=EFL – Squad List 2023/24: Queens Park Rangers – In Squad Players |publisher=English Football League |page=32 |access-date=15 November 2023}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1995|10|7|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Gold Coast, Queensland]], Australia
| height = {{convert|1.88|m|order=flip}}<ref>{{WorldFootball.net}}</ref>
| position = [[Striker (association football)|Striker]]
| currentclub = [[Charlton Athletic F.C.|Charlton Athletic]]
| clubnumber = 99
| youthyears1 =
| youthclubs1 = [[Mudgeeraba S.C.|Mudgeeraba]]
| years1 = 2013
| clubs1 = [[Mudgeeraba S.C.|Mudgeeraba]]
| caps1 = 5
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2014
| clubs2 = [[Merrimac FC|Merrimac]]
| caps2 = 16
| goals2 = 10
| years3 = 2014–2015
| clubs3 = [[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]]
| caps3 = 0
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2015
| clubs4 = [[Redlands United FC|Redlands United]]
| caps4 = 15
| goals4 = 7
| years5 = 2015
| clubs5 = [[Palm Beach SC|Gold Coast City]]
| caps5 = 1
| goals5 = 0
| years6 = 2016
| clubs6 = [[Surfers Paradise Apollo SC|Surfers Paradise Apollo]]
| caps6 = 5
| goals6 = 3
| years7 = 2016–2019
| clubs7 = [[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]]
| caps7 = 100
| goals7 = 11
| years8 = 2019–2020
| clubs8 = [[Livingston F.C.|Livingston]]
| caps8 = 28
| goals8 = 11
| years9 = 2020–2024
| clubs9 = [[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]]
| caps9 = 156
| goals9 = 35
| years10 = 2024–2026
| clubs10 = [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]]
| caps10 = 46
| goals10 = 3
| years11 = 2026–
| clubs11 = [[Charlton Athletic F.C.|Charlton Athletic]] 
| caps11 = 20
| goals11 = 3
| nationalyears1 = 2020–
| nationalteam1 = [[Scotland national football team|Scotland]]
| nationalcaps1 = 51
| nationalgoals1 = 10
| club-update = 17:10, 2 May 2026 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 17:10, 30 May 2026 (UTC)
}}
'''Lyndon John Dykes''' (born 7 October 1995) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Forward (association football)|striker]] for {{English football updater|CharltoA}} club [[Charlton Athletic F.C.|Charlton Athletic]]. Born and raised in Australia to Scottish parents, he plays for the [[Scotland national football team|Scotland national team]].

Dykes previously played for [[Mudgeeraba S.C.|Mudgeeraba]], [[Merrimac FC|Merrimac]], [[Redlands United FC|Redlands United]] and [[Surfers Paradise Apollo SC|Surfers Paradise Apollo]] in Australia, for [[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]] and [[Livingston F.C.|Livingston]] in Scotland, and spent four years with English club [[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]].

==Personal life==
Dykes was born on the [[Gold Coast, Queensland|Gold Coast]] in [[Queensland]], Australia. He moved to [[Canberra]], [[Australian Capital Territory]], playing [[rugby league]] as a youth.<ref name=":0">{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/56156654|title=Lyndon Dykes: QPR's rugby league talent turned Scotland football hero|publisher=BBC|date=1 March 2021|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref> As a child, Dykes had a season pass to the [[Canberra Raiders]] and idolised captain [[Ruben Wiki]] at the time. In his youth, Dykes also played [[basketball]], [[rugby union]] and [[Australian rules football|Aussie Rules football]].<ref name=":1">{{cite news|title=The rugby league talent turned Scotland football hero|language=en-GB|work=BBC Sport|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/rugby-league/56156654|access-date=2021-07-04}}</ref> After returning to Australia from a stint with [[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]] Under-20s team, Dykes worked in a factory for sports company [[BLK (sportswear)|BLK]].<ref name="June 2021">{{cite news|last=Brewin|first=Joe|title=Lyndon Dykes interview: "Don't let the accent fool you! My blood is Scottish"|url=https://www.fourfourtwo.com/features/lyndon-dykes-interview-dont-let-the-accent-fool-you-my-blood-is-scottish|access-date=2021-07-04|website=FourFourTwo.com|date=17 June 2021|language=en}}</ref>

Dykes said of his background, "My parents are Scottish. They are from [[Dumfries]]. My dad is from just outside Dumfries, a small town called [[Moniaive]]."<ref name="nat2019">{{cite news|url=https://www.thenational.scot/sport/17951491.livingstons-australia-born-striker-lyndon-dykes-prepared-pledge-allegiance-scotland/|title=Livingston's Australia-born striker Lyndon Dykes prepared to pledge his allegiance to Scotland|last=Lindsay|first=Matthew|date=8 October 2019|work=The National|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref> His elder sister [[Hollie Dykes|Hollie]] was a gold medal-winning gymnast for Australia at the [[2006 Commonwealth Games]].<ref>{{Cite news |date=2020-07-25 |title=Lyndon Dykes: Livingston striker still silent on Scotland or Australia |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/53528221 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> Dykes' son was born in Scotland.<ref name="dykesnat1">{{cite news|url=https://www.thenational.scot/sport/18057596.lyndon-dykes-says-ready-commit-scotland-tells-steve-clarke-come-get/|title=Lyndon Dykes says he is ready to commit to Scotland as tells Steve Clarke to come and get him|last=McGarry|first=Graeme|date=24 November 2019|work=The National|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref>

==Club career==
===Early career===
Dykes spent part of his younger years living and playing [[rugby league]] in [[Canberra]] where his family settled. Dykes attracted the interest of the Canberra Raiders after helping [[Gungahlin Bulls]] to a cup final win. The move never came about as Dykes suffered an injury and his family moved back to the Gold Coast.<ref name=":0" />

Dykes played youth football for [[Mudgeeraba S.C.|Mudgeeraba]] before joining [[Merrimac F.C.|Merrimac]]. He then played in the 2015 [[National Premier Leagues Queensland]] with [[Redlands United]] and joined [[Gold Coast City FC]] the year after but soon departed to play that season for [[Surfers Paradise Apollo SC]] for one month.<ref name="qossquad">{{Cite web|url=https://www.qosfc.com/players|title=QosFC: Squad – Season 20/21|website=www.qosfc.com|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref> Dykes was rejected by [[A-League]] sides such as [[Brisbane Roar FC|Brisbane Roar]] when playing football in Australia.<ref name=":0" />

===Queen of the South===
Dykes toured England with the [[Australian schoolboys]], after which he visited relatives in [[Dumfries]], the home town of his parents. He then returned to Dumfries to play for the [[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]] Under-20s team.<ref name=qossquad/> He scored 22 goals in 14 competitive matches at this level before returning to Australia in January 2015.<ref name="qosreturn">{{cite web|title=Lyndon Dykes Signs On|url=http://www.qosfc.com/news-3215|publisher=Queen of the south F.C.|date=7 June 2016|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160624074606/http://www.qosfc.com/news-3215|archive-date=24 June 2016|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref>

On 7 June 2016, Dykes returned to Scotland and signed for Queen of the South, who had [[Gavin Skelton]] as their manager at that time.<ref name=qosreturn/> Dykes' senior competitive debut was representing Queen's when aged 20 in a 2–0 [[Scottish League Cup]] win versus [[Queen's Park F.C.|Queen's Park]] at the [[Excelsior Stadium]] on 16 July. His first senior goal was on 9 August in the Queen's 3–1 League Cup win over [[Hibernian F.C.|Hibernian]].<ref name=qossquad/>

On 7 December 2017, Dykes signed an extension to his contract that kept him at the club until 31 May 2019.<ref>{{cite web|title=Contract Extension For Lyndon|url=http://www.qosfc.com/news-3827|publisher=Queen of the South F.C.|date=7 December 2017|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20171209044124/http://www.qosfc.com/news-3827|archive-date=9 December 2017|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref> In three years in Dumfries, he played in 86 league matches, scoring 10 league goals and in 31 cup matches scoring nine cup goals for the Doonhamers. His best position for the ''Doonhamers'' was as a foil for Queens main striker [[Stephen Dobbie]], especially when Dobbie scored 43 goals in the [[2018–19 in Scottish football|2018–19 season]], although he was also played on the wings.<ref name=qossquad/>

===Livingston===
On 30 January 2019, Dykes secured a two-year contract to join [[Livingston F.C.|Livingston]], but the ''Doonhamers'' reached an agreement with the [[West Lothian]] club for him to stay at [[Palmerston Park]] until the end of the [[2018-19 in Scottish football|2018–19 season]].<ref>{{cite web|title=Lyndon Dykes|url=http://www.qosfc.com/news-4330|publisher=Queen of the South F.C.|date=30 January 2019|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190131092926/http://www.qosfc.com/news-4330|archive-date=31 January 2019|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|title=Lyndon Dykes says signing for Livingston was a 'no-brainer' after striker pens deal with Premiership club|url=https://www.dailyrecord.co.uk/sport/local-sport/lyndon-dykes-says-signing-livingston-13930284|publisher=West Lothian Courier|last=Carson|first=Callum|date=30 January 2019|access-date=10 August 2019}}</ref> Dykes was utilised as a central striker at the ''Lions''. He scored on his senior competitive debut for the Lions in a 1–1 League Cup draw at [[Falkirk F.C.|Falkirk]] on 13 July. On 12 September, he extended his contract with the Lions for an additional season until May 2022. On 6 October, he scored the second goal in the 2–0 home league win versus [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]]. On 21 December, he scored a [[hat-trick]] in a 4–0 win versus [[Ross County F.C.|Ross County]], the first time a Livingston player had done so in the top flight.<ref>{{cite web|title=Livingston 4–0 Ross County|url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/50791601|publisher=BBC Sport|last=Idessane|first=Kheredine|date=21 December 2019|access-date=22 December 2019}}</ref>

On 16 August 2020, Livingston announced that a bid has been accepted from a [[EFL Championship|Championship]] club for Dykes.<ref name=":2">{{Cite web|date=2020-08-16|title=Bid for Lyndon Dykes accepted|url=https://livingstonfc.co.uk/bid-for-lyndon-dykes-accepted/|access-date=2021-07-17|website=Livingston FC|language=en-GB}}</ref> Three days later, it was announced that he joined [[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]].<ref>{{Cite web|last=Black|first=Dave|date=2020-08-19|title=Lyndon Dykes signs for Queens Park Rangers|url=https://livingstonfc.co.uk/lyndon-dykes-signs-for-queens-park-rangers/|access-date=2021-07-17|website=Livingston FC|language=en-GB}}</ref> Dykes' transfer fee broke Livingston's club record previously held by the sale of [[David Fernández (footballer, born 1976)|David Fernandez]] to [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]] in 2002.<ref name=":2" /> Queen of the South are due a six-figure fee as part of the deal, as a sell-on clause was included when Dykes was sold to Livingston, with the figure likely to surpass the club's £250,000 record fee received when [[Andy Thomson (Scottish footballer)|Andy Thomson]] moved to [[Southend United F.C.|Southend United]] in 1994.<ref>{{Cite web|title=QosFC: Lyndon Dykes|url=https://www.qosfc.com/news-5138|website=www.qosfc.com|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref>

===Queens Park Rangers===

On 19 August 2020, Dykes signed a four-year deal for English club [[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]] for a reported fee of £2m.<ref>{{Cite news |date=2020-08-19 |title=Lyndon Dykes: Queens Park Rangers sign Livingston striker |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/53837265 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> On 12 September, Dykes scored on his competitive debut for the club, scoring a penalty in the 54th minute, in a 2–0 win versus [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]].<ref>{{Cite news |date=2020-09-12 |title=Championship: Queens Park Rangers 2-0 Nottingham Forest |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/54037866 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> 

In April 2021, Dykes was named the club's Player of the Month after scoring six goals in six games most notably scoring a brace in a 4–1 win over [[Sheffield Wednesday F.C.|Sheffield Wednesday]] on 10 April.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Lyndon Dykes voted Player of the Month |url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/news/club-news/lyndon-dykes-voted-player-of-the-month-280421/ |access-date=2026-05-20 |website=www.qpr.co.uk}}</ref> Dykes had finished the season as QPR's top scorer with 12 goals and five assists.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Player Profile: Striker Lyndon Dykes |url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/squads/first-team/lyndon-dykes/ |access-date=2026-05-20 |website=www.qpr.co.uk}}</ref> On 16 October 2021, Dykes scored in the [[West London derby]] in [[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]]' 4–1 loss against [[Fulham F.C.|Fulham]] in the [[EFL Championship|Championship]].<ref>{{Cite news |date=2021-10-16 |title=Fulham 4-1 Queens Park Rangers: Aleksandar Mitrovic scores twice in west London derby win |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/58853026 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> In January 2023, Dykes was admitted to hospital with the club said to be "closely monitoring" the striker.<ref>{{Cite news |date=2023-01-29 |title=Lyndon Dykes: QPR and Scotland striker admitted to hospital |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/64445365 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref><ref>{{Cite news |last=Stevenson |first=Alexandra |date=2026-05-20 |title=tỷ lệ kèo |url=https://tylekeo.host |access-date=2026-05-20 |language=en-US}}</ref> He spent eight days in hospital having been diagnosed with pneumonia following a CT scan on his lungs.<ref>{{Cite news |date=2023-03-22 |title=Lyndon Dykes: Scotland striker 'enjoying each moment' after 'scary' pneumonia |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/65028906 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> On 26 June 2023, Dykes signed a new three-year contract with the club.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Dykes agrees new deal |url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/news/club-news/dykes-agrees-new-deal-260623/ |access-date=2026-05-20 |website=www.qpr.co.uk}}</ref>

===Birmingham City===
Dykes signed for [[EFL League One|League One]] club [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]] on a three-year contract on 28 August 2024; the fee was undisclosed.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bcfc.com/pages/en/media-article/blues-sign-lyndon-dykes |title=Blues sign Lyndon Dykes! |publisher=Birmingham City F.C. |date=28 August 2024 |access-date=28 August 2024}}</ref>

===Charlton Athletic===
On 15 January 2026, Dykes joined Championship club [[Charlton Athletic F.C.|Charlton Athletic]] on a deal for the remainder of the [[2025–26 Charlton Athletic F.C. season|2025–26 season]].<ref>{{cite news |title=Lyndon Dykes is an Addick|url=https://www.charltonafc.com/news/lyndon-dykes-addick |access-date=15 January 2026 |publisher=Charlton Athletic Official Site |date=15 January 2026}}</ref> On 8 May 2026, the club said it was in talks with player about extending his contract.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2026-05-08 |title=Lyndon Dykes: Charlton Athletic offer Scotland striker new deal |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/cqxp44q03zwo |access-date=2026-05-12 |website=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref>

==International career==
Dykes played for Australia schoolboys prior to joining Queen of the South.<ref name=qossquad/> He was eligible to represent either [[Australia men's national soccer team|Australia]] (where he was born) or [[Scotland national football team|Scotland]].<ref name=dykesnat1/>

When playing with Livingston, Australia's assistant manager [[René Meulensteen|Rene Meulensteen]] came to watch Dykes play against [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]] in October 2019. The same week, Scotland manager [[Steve Clarke]] also contacted Dykes, who "went with my heart and my gut" and chose Scotland.<ref name="June 2021"/> On 25 August 2020, Dykes was named in the Scotland squad for the first time for [[UEFA Nations League]] matches versus [[Israel national football team|Israel]] and the [[Czech Republic national football team|Czech Republic]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/53894763 |title=Scotland: Steve Clarke selects Lyndon Dykes in Nations League squad |first=Jane |last=Lewis |website=BBC Sport |date=25 August 2020 |access-date=25 August 2020}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.qosfc.com/news-5161|title=QosFC: Scotland Squad|website=www.qosfc.com|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref> He made his international debut in a 1–1 draw with Israel on 4 September and then scored his first goal for Scotland a few days later in a 2–1 victory over the Czech Republic.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://uk.soccerway.com/matches/2020/09/04/europe/uefa-nations-league/scotland/israel/3243411/|title=Scotland vs. Israel – 4 September 2020 – Soccerway|website=Soccerway|access-date=2026-05-20}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.edinburghnews.scotsman.com/sport/football/hearts/scotland-1-1-israel-disappointment-scots-lyndon-dykes-makes-solid-debut-2962437|title=Scotland 1–1 Israel: Disappointment for Scots as Lyndon Dykes makes solid debut|website=EDinburgh News|date=4 September 2020|access-date=7 September 2020}}</ref> On 11 October, Dykes scored the winner in a Nations League match against [[Slovakia national football team|Slovakia]] which ended 1–0 after steering home [[Stephen O'Donnell (footballer, born 1992)|Stephen O'Donnell]]'s low cross.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Dykes bags Scotland winner and Kakay earns start|url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/news/club-news/dykes-bags-scotland-winner-and-kakay-earns-start/|access-date=2021-06-27|website=QPR|date=12 October 2020 }}</ref>

On 19 May 2021, Dykes was named in Scotland's [[UEFA Euro 2020]] squad after becoming the nation's first choice striker alongside [[Ché Adams|Che Adams]].<ref>{{Cite web|title=Dykes named in Scotland Euro 2020 squad|url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/news/club-news/dykes-named-in-scotland-euro-2020-squad-190521/|access-date=2021-06-27|website=QPR|date=19 May 2021 }}</ref> On 14 June, he played 79 minutes of Scotland's opening game which resulted in a 2–0 defeat to the Czech Republic.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Euro R's: Dykes & Scotland lose tournament opener|url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/news/club-news/euro-rs-dykes-scotland-lose-tournament-opener-140621/|access-date=2021-06-27|website=QPR|date=14 June 2021 }}</ref> On 18 June, he played the full 90 minutes in the fixture against [[England national football team|England]] at [[Wembley Stadium]] which ended in a 0–0 draw.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Euro R's: Dykes stars for Scotland at Wembley|url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/news/club-news/euro-rs-dykes-stars-for-scotland-at-wembley/|access-date=2021-06-27|website=QPR|date=18 June 2021 }}</ref> On 22 June, he started in a 3–1 defeat to [[Croatia national football team|Croatia]] which ended Scotland's Euros campaign.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Euro R's: Dykes and Scotland exit EURO 2020|url=https://www.qpr.co.uk/news/club-news/euro-rs-dykes-and-scotland-exit-euro-2020/|access-date=2021-06-27|website=QPR|date=22 June 2021 }}</ref>

On 4 September 2021, Dykes scored in the only goal against [[Moldova national football team|Moldova]] in a [[2022 FIFA World Cup qualification|2022 World Cup qualifier]].<ref>{{Cite news |date=2021-09-03 |title=Scotland 1-0 Moldova: Lyndon Dykes goal keeps Steve Clarke's side in World Cup hunt |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/58365963 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> Three days later he scored a 30th-minute penalty in another 1–0 win for Scotland, this time away to [[Austria national football team|Austria]] in the same competition.<ref>{{Cite news |date=2021-09-06 |title=Austria 0-1 Scotland: Lyndon Dykes penalty earns huge away win |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/58386792 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> The following month, Dykes scored in narrow wins over Israel and the [[Faroe Islands national football team|Faroe Islands]], becoming the first Scotland player to score in four consecutive matches since [[Colin Stein]] in 1969.<ref>{{Cite news |date=2021-10-12 |title=Faroe Islands 0-1 Scotland: Steve Clarke praises match-winner Lyndon Dykes |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/58892843 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref>

In a [[2022–23 UEFA Nations League|UEFA Nations League]] match against [[Ukraine national football team|Ukraine]] on 21 September 2022, Dykes came off the bench in the 77th minute to score a brace, in the 80th and 87th minutes respectively, to secure a 3–0 win for Scotland.<ref>{{Cite news |date=2022-09-20 |title=Scotland 3-0 Ukraine: John McGinn & Lyndon Dykes double earn vital Nations League win |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/62897957 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref>

Dykes helped Scotland qualify for [[UEFA Euro 2024]], scoring the equaliser and providing the assist for the winning goal in a 2–1 away win against [[Norway men's national football team|Norway]] in June 2023.<ref>{{Cite news |date=2023-06-16 |title=Norway 1-2 Scotland: Lyndon Dykes & Kenny McLean score late to earn dramatic win |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/65864111 |access-date=2026-05-20 |work=BBC Sport |language=en-GB}}</ref> He was selected in a 28-man provisional squad for the Euro 2024 finals,<ref>{{cite news |date=22 May 2024 |title=Steve Clarke names Provisional EURO 2024 Squad |url=https://www.scottishfa.co.uk/news/steve-clarke-names-provisional-euro-2024-squad/ |publisher=[[Scottish Football Association]] |access-date=30 May 2024}}</ref> but he had to withdraw prior to the tournament after suffering an ankle injury in training.<ref>{{cite web |date=1 June 2024 |title=Scotland striker Dykes ruled out of Euro 2024 |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/articles/cqvv496vnpdo |publisher=BBC Sport |access-date=1 June 2024}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |url=https://news.stv.tv/sport/liam-cooper-hopes-injured-lyndon-dykes-stays-with-scotland-in-some-capacity |title=Liam Cooper hopes injured Lyndon Dykes stays with Scotland in some capacity |publisher=STV News |date=3 June 2024 |accessdate=4 June 2024}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 2 May 2026}}

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Scottish Cup]], [[FA Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|League cup{{efn|Includes [[Scottish League Cup]], [[EFL Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Queen of the South F.C.|Queen of the South]]
|[[2016–17 Queen of the South F.C. season|2016–17]]<ref name=sb1617>{{soccerbase season|80989|2016|access-date=23 January 2021}}</ref>
|[[Scottish Championship]]
|30||2||1||0||6||1||3{{efn|name=SSC|Appearances in [[Scottish Challenge Cup]]}}||1||40||4
|-
|[[2017–18 Queen of the South F.C. season|2017–18]]<ref name=sb1718>{{soccerbase season|80989|2017|access-date=23 January 2021}}</ref>
|Scottish Championship
|34||7||3||0||4||0||3{{efn|name=SSC}}||1||44||8
|-
|[[2018–19 Queen of the South F.C. season|2018–19]]<ref name=sb1819>{{soccerbase season|80989|2018|access-date=23 January 2021}}</ref>
|Scottish Championship
|36||2||4||1||5||3||7{{efn|Three appearances and two goals in Scottish Challenge Cup, four appearances and two goals in Scottish Premiership play-offs}}||4||52||10
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!100!!11!!8!!1!!15!!4!!13!!6!!136!!22
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Livingston F.C.|Livingston]]
|[[2019–20 Livingston F.C. season|2019–20]]<ref name=sb1920>{{soccerbase season|80989|2019|access-date=23 January 2021}}</ref>
|[[Scottish Premiership]]
|25||9||2||1||6||2||colspan="2"|—||33||12
|-
|[[2020–21 Livingston F.C. season|2020–21]]<ref name=sb2021>{{soccerbase season|80989|2020|access-date=15 October 2024}}</ref>
|Scottish Premiership
|3||2||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||3||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!28!!11!!2!!1!!6!!2!!colspan="2"|—!!36!!14
|-
|rowspan="6"|[[Queens Park Rangers F.C.|Queens Park Rangers]]
|[[2020–21 Queens Park Rangers F.C. season|2020–21]]<ref name=sb2021 />
|[[EFL Championship|Championship]]
|42||12||1||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||43||12
|-
|[[2021–22 Queens Park Rangers F.C. season|2021–22]]<ref name=sb2122>{{soccerbase season|80989|2021|access-date=19 August 2022}}</ref>
|Championship
|33||8||2||1||2||0||colspan="2"|—||37||9
|-
|[[2022–23 Queens Park Rangers F.C. season|2022–23]]<ref name=sb2223>{{soccerbase season|80989|2022|access-date=15 October 2024}}</ref>
|Championship
|39||8||1||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||40||8
|-
|[[2023–24 Queens Park Rangers F.C. season|2023–24]]<ref name=sb2324>{{soccerbase season|80989|2023|access-date=15 October 2024}}</ref>
|Championship
|41||6||1||1||1||0||colspan="2"|—||43||7
|-
|[[2024–25 Queens Park Rangers F.C. season|2024–25]]<ref name=sb2425 />
|Championship
|1||1||colspan="2"|—||1||0||colspan="2"|—||2||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!156!!35!!5!!2!!4!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!165!!37
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]]
|[[2024–25 Birmingham City F.C. season|2024–25]]<ref name=sb2425>{{soccerbase season|80989|2024|access-date=14 April 2025}}</ref>
|[[EFL League One|League One]]
|25||1||3||2||colspan="2"|—||4{{efn|Appearances in [[EFL Trophy]]}}||2||32||5
|-
|[[2025–26 Birmingham City F.C. season|2025–26]]<ref name=sb2526>{{soccerbase season|80989|2025|access-date=26 August 2025}}</ref>
|Championship
|21||2||0||0||2||0||colspan="2"|—||23||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!46!!3!!3!!2!!2!!0!!4!!2!!55!!7
|-
|[[Charlton Athletic F.C.|Charlton Athletic]]
|[[2025–26 Charlton Athletic F.C. season|2025–26]]<ref name=sb2526/>
|Championship
|20||3||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||20||3
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!350!!63!!18!!6!!27!!6!!17!!8!!412!!83
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 30 May 2026}}<ref>{{SFA Profile|id=352491}}. Retrieved 19 November 2024.</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="7"|[[Scotland national football team|Scotland]]
|2020||7||2
|-
|2021||13||4
|-
|2022||6||2
|-
|2023||9||1
|-
|2024||7||0
|-
|2025||6||1
|-
|2026||3||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total||51||10
|}

:''Scores and results list Scotland's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Dykes goal.''

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Lyndon Dykes
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
| align="center"|1 || 7 September 2020 || [[Andrův stadion]], [[Olomouc]], Czech Republic || {{fb|CZE}} || align="center"|1–1 || align="center"|2–1 || [[2020–21 UEFA Nations League B]]
|-
| align="center"|2 || 11 October 2020 || [[Hampden Park]], [[Glasgow]], Scotland || {{fb|SVK}} || align="center"|1–0 || align="center"|1–0  || 2020–21 UEFA Nations League B
|-
| align="center"|3 || 4 September 2021 || [[Hampden Park]], [[Glasgow]], Scotland || {{fb|MDA}} || align="center"|1–0 || align="center"|1–0 || [[2022 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group F|2022 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|-
| align="center"|4 || 7 September 2021
|| [[Ernst Happel Stadium]], [[Vienna]], Austria || {{fb|AUT}} || align="center"| 1–0 || align="center"| 1–0 || 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification
|-
| align="center"|5 || 9 October 2021
|| [[Hampden Park]], [[Glasgow]], Scotland || {{fb|ISR}} || align="center"| 2–2 || align="center"| 3–2 ||2022 FIFA World Cup qualification
|-
| align="center"|6 || 12 October 2021
|| [[Tórsvøllur]], [[Tórshavn]],  Faroe Islands || {{fb|FRO}} || align="center"| 1–0 || align="center"| 1–0 || 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification
|-
| align="center"|7 || rowspan="2"| 21 September 2022
| rowspan="2"| [[Hampden Park]], [[Glasgow]], Scotland || rowspan="2"| {{fb|UKR}} || align="center"| 2–0 || rowspan="2" align="center" | 3–0 || rowspan="2" | [[2022–23 UEFA Nations League B]]
|-
| align="center"|8 || align="center"| 3–0
|-
| align="center"|9 || 17 June 2023
|| [[Ullevaal Stadion]], [[Oslo]],  Norway || {{fb|NOR}} || align="center"| 1–1 || align="center"| 2–1 || [[UEFA Euro 2024 qualifying Group A|UEFA Euro 2024 qualifying]]
|-
| align="center"|10 || 9 October 2025
|| [[Hampden Park]], [[Glasgow]], Scotland || {{fb|GRE}} || align="center"| 3–1 || align="center"| 3–1 || [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification - UEFA Group C|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Birmingham City'''
*[[EFL League One]]: [[2024–25 EFL League One|2024–25]]<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/articles/cj3xr53g0z5o |title=Birmingham win League One title after Wrexham draw |publisher=BBC Sport |date=12 April 2025 |access-date=14 April 2025}}<br />{{cite book |url=https://images.gc.eflservices.co.uk/13ec1e50-15e9-11f0-a2eb-91a1ddc0c472.pdf |title=Handbook: 2024/25 EFL Regulations |chapter=Section Six: EFL Regulations |at=38.2 p. 301 |publisher=English Football League |date=2024 |access-date=14 April 2025 |quote=To be eligible to receive a Championship, League One or Two winners medal, a player must have been named on the team sheet in at least 25% of the Club's league fixtures in that season.}}<br />{{cite web |url=https://uk.soccerway.com/teams/england/birmingham-city-fc/669/squad/ |title=Birmingham City FC: Squad: Statistics: 2024/2025 |website=Soccerway |publisher=Perform Group |access-date=14 April 2025}}</ref>

==See also==
* [[List of Scotland international footballers born outside Scotland]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*{{Soccerbase|80989}}
*{{Soccerway|llyndon-dykes/449255}}

{{Charlton Athletic F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Scotland squads
| bg          = #003876
| fg          = #FFFFFF
| bordercolor = silver
| list1 =
{{Scotland squad UEFA Euro 2020}}
{{Scotland squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Dykes, Lyndon}}
[[Category:1995 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Soccer players from the Gold Coast, Queensland]]
[[Category:Sportsmen from Queensland]]
[[Category:Soccer players from Queensland]]
[[Category:Australian men's soccer players]]
[[Category:Scottish men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football forwards]]
[[Category:Queen of the South F.C. players]]
[[Category:Livingston F.C. players]]
[[Category:Queens Park Rangers F.C. players]]
[[Category:Birmingham City F.C. players]]
[[Category:Charlton Athletic F.C. players]]
[[Category:Scottish Professional Football League players]]
[[Category:English Football League players]]
[[Category:Scotland men's international footballers]]
[[Category:UEFA Euro 2020 players]]
[[Category:21st-century Scottish sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century Australian sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]