{{Short description|Algerian footballer (born 1999)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=February 2021}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name        = Samir Chergui
| image       = 
| fullname    = Samir Sophian Chergui
| birth_date  = {{birth date and age|1999|2|6|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Arpajon]], France
| height      = 1.85 m
| position    = [[Centre-back]]<ref>{{worldfootball.net|samir-chergui|new_id=pe605732}}</ref>
| currentclub = [[Paris FC]]
| clubnumber  = 31
| youthyears1 = 2006–2013 | youthclubs1 = Brétigny 
| youthyears2 = 2013–2016 | youthclubs2 = [[AJ Auxerre|Auxerre]] 
| years1 = 2016–2020 | clubs1 = [[AJ Auxerre|Auxerre B]] | caps1 = 44  | goals1 = 1
| years2 = 2020–     | clubs2 = [[Paris FC|Paris FC B]]  | caps2 = 7   | goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2020–     | clubs3 = [[Paris FC]]             | caps3 = 110 | goals3 = 2 <!--Does not include Ligue 2 promotion play-offs.-->
| nationalyears1 = 2025–
| nationalteam1 = [[Algeria national football team|Algeria]]
| nationalcaps1  = 4
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| club-update    = 19 May 2026
| nationalteam-update = 28 December 2025
}}

'''Samir Sophian Chergui''' (born 6 February 1999) is a professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[centre-back]] for{{French football updater|Paris FC}} club [[Paris FC]]. Born in France, he plays for the [[Algeria national football team|Algeria national team]].

==Career==
Trained at CS Brétigny, the Brétignolais played as an attacking midfielder. Over the years, he gradually moved back down the pitch to play professionally as a central defender or right-back. His main qualities are athletic, but he is very gifted and comfortable technically. His former role as an attacking midfielder also gives him an excellent quality when throwing the ball, which allows him to project himself very quickly. A youth product of Auxerre since 2013, Chergui signed a professional contract with them on 20 June 2019.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.actufoot.com/75/4-franciliens-ont-signe-professionnels-a-auxerre |title=4 Franciliens ont signé professionnels à Auxerre ! |date=20 June 2019}}</ref> On 3 March 2020, he was released from Auxerre after repeated misconducts including arriving drunk at training the day after his 21st birthday.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.actufoot.com/75/bretignolais-samir-chergui-licencie-laj-auxerre |title=Le Brétignolais Samir Chergui licencié par l'AJ Auxerre |date=2 March 2020}}</ref>

A few months after, Chergui signed with Paris FC. Chergui made his professional debut with Paris FC in a 1–1 Ligue 2 tie with AC Ajaccio on 8 January 2021.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://uk.soccerway.com/matches/2021/01/08/france/ligue-2/paris-football-club-98/athletic-club-ajaccien/3288001/ |title=Paris FC vs. Ajaccio - 8 January 2021 - Soccerway |website=Soccerway}}</ref> He opened his professional goal account in May 2022 on the 37th matchday of Ligue 2 against Amiens. A headed goal at the start of the second half.

He received his first red card in November 2022 against Metz. He received a card for an excess of anger towards the referee of the match. For this, he received a 4-game suspension.

==International career==
Born in France, Chergui is of Algerian descent.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://fennecfootball.com/jeune-talent-ne-veux-porter-couleurs-autres-couleurs-de-lalgerie/ |title=Jeune Talent : " Je ne veux pas porter des couleurs autres que les couleurs de l'Algérie " |date=3 January 2017}}</ref> He was called up to the [[Algeria national football team|Algeria national team]] for a set of [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – CAF Group G|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]] matches in October 2025.<ref>{{cite news|title=ÉLIMINATOIRES DE LA COUPE DU MONDE 2026 : BELAID REMPLACE TOUGAI|url=https://www.faf.dz/eliminatoires-de-la-coupe-du-monde-2026-belaid-remplace-tougai/|publisher=Algerian Football Federation|date=6 October 2025|access-date=11 October 2025|language=French}}</ref>

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* {{Soccerway|samir-chergui/456084}}

{{Paris FC squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Algeria squads
| bg = white
| fg = #009921
| bordercolor = #009921
| list1 =
{{Algeria squad 2025 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{Algeria squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Chergui, Samir}}
[[Category:1999 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:People from Arpajon]]
[[Category:Algerian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Algeria men's international footballers]]
[[Category:French men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football defenders]]
[[Category:French sportspeople of Algerian descent]]
[[Category:Paris FC players]]
[[Category:Ligue 1 players]]
[[Category:Ligue 2 players]]
[[Category:Championnat National 2 players]]
[[Category:Championnat National 3 players]]
[[Category:Footballers from Essonne]]
[[Category:21st-century Algerian sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century French sportsmen]]
[[Category:2025 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]