{{Short description|Footballer (born 2003)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=August 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Youssef Amyn
| image = 4822944 AE7I9304 (cropped).jpg
| caption = Amyn playing for [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]] at the [[2023 AFC Asian Cup]]
| full_name = Youssef Wali Faeq Amyn<ref name="FIFA">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce89/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA U-20 World Cup Argentina 2023™ SQUAD LIST: Iraq (IRQ) |publisher=FIFA |page=12 |date=22 May 2023 |access-date=29 May 2023}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|2003|08|21|df=y}}<ref name="FIFA"/>
| birth_place = [[Essen]], Germany
| height = 1.72 m<ref name="FIFA"/>
| position = [[Winger (association football)|Winger]]
| currentclub = [[AEK Larnaca FC|AEK Larnaca]]
| clubnumber = 20
| youthyears1 = 2007–2012
| youthclubs1 = TuS Querenburg
| youthyears2 = 2012–2015
| youthclubs2 = [[VfL Bochum]]
| youthyears3 = 2015–2020
| youthclubs3 = [[Borussia Dortmund Youth Sector|Borussia Dortmund]]
| youthyears4 = 2020–2021
| youthclubs4 = [[FC Viktoria Köln|Viktoria Köln]]
| years1 = 2021–2022
| clubs1 = [[FC Viktoria Köln|Viktoria Köln]]
| caps1 = 35
| goals1 = 5
| years2 = 2022–2023
| clubs2 = [[Feyenoord]]
| caps2 = 0
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2023–2024
| clubs3 = [[Eintracht Braunschweig]]
| caps3 = 9
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2024–2025
| clubs4 = [[Al Wehda FC|Al Wehda]]
| caps4 = 29
| goals4 = 4
| years5 = 2025–
| clubs5 = [[AEK Larnaca FC|AEK Larnaca]]
| caps5 = 14
| goals5 = 2
| nationalyears1 = 2021–2022
| nationalteam1 = [[Germany national youth football team|Germany U19]]
| nationalcaps1 = 10
| nationalgoals1 = 2
| nationalyears2 = 2023
| nationalteam2 = [[Iraq national under-20 football team|Iraq U20]]
| nationalcaps2 = 5
| nationalgoals2 = 1
| nationalyears3 = 2024
| nationalteam3 = [[Iraq national under-23 football team|Iraq Olympic]]
| nationalcaps3 = 3
| nationalgoals3 = 0
| nationalyears4 = 2023–
| nationalteam4 = [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
| nationalcaps4 = 26
| nationalgoals4 = 2
| club-update = 14 February 2026
| nationalteam-update = 4 June 2026
}}

'''Youssef Wali Faeq Amyn''' ({{langx|ar|يُوسُف وَالِي فَائِق أَمِين}}; born 21 August 2003) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[winger (association football)|winger]] for [[Cypriot First Division]] club [[AEK Larnaca FC|AEK Larnaca]]. Born in Germany, he plays for the [[Iraq national football team|Iraq national team]].<ref name="soccerway">{{Soccerway|622191}}</ref>

==Club career==
===Viktoria Köln===
In 2020, Amyn left the academy of Borussia Dortmund to join the youth side of [[FC Viktoria Köln|Viktoria Köln]].<ref>{{cite web | url=https://pukmedia.com/EN/Details/67384 | title=Starting from Darbandikhan to reach the German League ‌ }}</ref> He made his professional debut for the club on 13 March 2021 in a 3–1 league win against [[MSV Duisburg]].<ref>{{cite web|title=Viktoria Köln vs. MSV Duisburg - 13 March 2021|url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2021/03/13/germany/3-liga/fc-viktoria-koln/msv-duisburg/3344857/|access-date=5 April 2021}}</ref> This made him the youngest player to appear in a professional match for the club in its history.<ref>{{cite web|title=NEUES AUS DEM VEREIN|url=https://www.viktoria1904.de/aktuelles/2021-03-15-neues-aus-dem-verein|date=15 March 2021|access-date=5 April 2021}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|title=FC Viktoria Köln: Nachwuchs-Talent Youssef Amyn sorgt für Rekord|url=https://www.media-sportservice.de/2021/03/17/fc-viktoria-koeln-youssef-amyn-sorgt-fuer-rekord/|date=17 March 2021|access-date=5 April 2021}}</ref> He also made an appearance in the semi final of the [[Middle Rhine Cup]], which his team went on to win, marking the first trophy of his career.

Amyn made his first start on the opening matchday of the [[2021–22 3. Liga|2021–22]] season, scoring his first goal for the club in a 2–1 defeat to [[FC Viktoria 1889 Berlin|Viktoria Berlin]]. He scored six goals from 36 matches during that season.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.dfb.de/3-liga/spieltagtabelle/?no_cache=1&spieledb_path=%2Fdatencenter%2F3-liga%2F2021-22%2Fcurrent | title=Spieltag/Tabelle | date=18 March 2014 }}</ref> He also played a part in his team's Middle Rhine Cup campaign, providing an assist in the semi final and the final on route to winning the trophy.

===Feyenoord===
On 1 September 2022, Amyn joined the under-21 team of [[Eredivisie]] club [[Feyenoord]] for three years with an option for an additional year.<ref>{{cite web|title=Amyn en Touré nieuwe aanwinsten Feyenoord Onder 21|url=https://www.feyenoord.nl/nieuws/nieuwsoverzicht/amyn-en-toure-nieuwe-aanwinsten-feyenoord-onder-21-010922|date=1 September 2022|access-date=1 September 2022|publisher=[[Feyenoord]]|language=nl}}</ref>

===Eintracht Braunschweig===
On 18 July 2023, Amyn signed for [[Eintracht Braunschweig]] on a two-year contract until June 2025.<ref>{{cite web|title=Eintracht Braunschweig verpflichtet Youssef Amyn|url=https://www.eintracht.com/news/artikel/eintracht-braunschweig-verpflichtet-youssef-amyn|date=18 July 2023|publisher=Eintracht Braunschweig|language=de}}</ref> He made his debut on 17 September, coming on as a substitute against [[Hertha Berlin]]. He struggled for gametime as his team battled relegation.<ref name="fifa.com">https://www.fifa.com/en/news/articles/amyn-iraq-interview-world-cup-26-qualifiers</ref> He only made nine appearances the entire season, failing to score or assist, as his team narrowly avoided the drop by finishing 15th.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.dfb.de/2-bundesliga/spieltagtabelle/?no_cache=1&spieledb_path=%2Fdatencenter%2F2-bundesliga%2F2023-24%2Fcurrent | title=Spieltag/Tabelle | date=11 March 2014 }}</ref>

===Al Wehda===
On 28 August 2024, Amyn moved to [[Al Wehda FC|Al Wehda]] in Saudi Arabia.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=Eintracht Braunschweig|url=https://www.eintracht.com/news/artikel/youssef-amyn-verlaesst-eintracht-braunschweig|title=Youssef Amyn verlässt Eintracht Braunschweig|trans-title=Youssef Amyn leaves Eintracht Braunschweig|date=28 August 2024|access-date=28 August 2024|language=de}}</ref>

===AEK Larnaca===
On 29 July 2025, Amyn joined Cypriot club [[AEK Larnaca FC|AEK Larnaca]] on a two-year contract.<ref>{{cite web|title=Youssef Amyn και με τη… βούλα|url=https://protathlima.cyprustimes.com/podosfairo-kyprou/a-katigoria/aek/youssef-amyn-kai-me-ti-voula/|date=29 July 2025|access-date=29 July 2025}}</ref>

==International career==
Amyn was born in [[Germany]] to [[Kurds|Kurdish]] parents from [[Darbandikhan]], [[Kurdistan Region]], [[Iraq]]. Therefore, he was eligible to play for Germany or Iraq.

===Germany U19===
Amyn has represented Germany at [[Germany national youth football team|youth level]]. In 2020, [[Qahtan Chathir]] called up the player to represent [[Iraq national under-20 football team|Iraq's youth team]], inviting him to a training camp in [[Baghdad]] during his coincidental visit to [[Sulaymaniyah|his hometown]], and on many occasions in 2021, new manager [[Emad Mohammed]] sent invitations to the player but he rejected and maintained his desire to represent Germany at youth level.

===Iraq U20 & U23===
On 31 March 2023, Amyn announced his desire to represent [[Iraq national under-20 football team|Iraq's youth team]] as they go into the [[2023 FIFA U-20 World Cup]] and the manager [[Emad Mohammed]] has asked the [[Iraq Football Association|Iraqi FA]] to request [[FIFA]] to switch Amyn's international eligibility.{{Citation needed|date=March 2023}} He was called up to the preparatory training camp in [[Province of Cádiz|Cádiz]], playing his first match in a friendly against [[Dominican Republic national under-20 football team|Dominican Republic]], winning a penalty then converting that penalty in the 50th minute. He also played against [[Brazil national under-20 football team|Brazil]], winning a penalty shortly before half-time which was converted by [[Abdul-Razzaq Qasim]]. During his time at the camp, it was announce that FIFA had agreed to switch his international allegiance officially, thus making him eligible to represent Iraq internationally.

He was called up to the final squad for the [[2023 FIFA U-20 World Cup]], starting all three games and catching the eye of the world through his consistent performances despite his side's humiliating performance as Iraq crashed out of the group stage without scoring a single goal.

Amyn was called up to take part in the [[2024 Summer Olympics]].<ref>[https://x.com/IRAQFA/status/1805995238864912601 X story]</ref>

=== Iraq senior team===

On 16 November 2023, Amyn made his senior debut for Iraq as a substitute against [[Indonesia]] in a FIFA World Cup qualifier, scoring a goal in a 5–1 win.<ref name="fifa.com"/> He was called up to the [[2023 AFC Asian Cup]], and featured in all 4 matches as Iraq were knocked out of the tournament by Jordan in the round of 16.

==Personal life==
Amyn is the older brother of footballer Arian Amyn.<ref>{{cite web|title=Kurdish-German player Arian Amin joins Iraqi youth national football team|url=https://en.964media.com/19516|date=29 July 2025|access-date=29 July 2025}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 4 January 2026}}<ref name=soccerway/>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
|-
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[DFB-Pokal]], [[King's Cup (Saudi Arabia)|King's Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|Continental
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[FC Viktoria Köln|Viktoria Köln]]
|[[2020–21 3. Liga|2020–21]]
|[[3. Liga]]
|3||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|name=mrc|Appearance(s) in [[Middle Rhine Cup]]}}||0||4||0
|-
|[[2021–22 3. Liga|2021–22]]
|3. Liga
|31||4||1||0||colspan="2"|—||4{{efn|name=mrc}}||2||36||6
|-
|[[2022–23 3. Liga|2022–23]]
|3. Liga
|1||1||0||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||1||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!35!!5!!1!!0!!0!!0!!5!!2!!41!!7
|-
|[[Eintracht Braunschweig]]
|[[2023–24 Eintracht Braunschweig season|2023–24]]
|[[2. Bundesliga]]
|9||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||9||0
|-
|[[Al Wehda FC|Al Wehda]]
|[[2024–25 Al-Wehda Club season|2024–25]]
|[[Saudi Pro League]]
|29||4||2||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||31||4
|-
|[[AEK Larnaca FC|AEK Larnaca]]
|[[2025–26 Cypriot First Division|2025–26]]
|[[Cypriot First Division]]
|10||1||0||0||2||0||0||0||12||1
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!83!!10!!3!!0!!2!!0!!5!!2!!93!!12
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 4 June 2026}}<ref name=soccerway/>
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
|2023||2||1
|-
|2024||15||1
|-
|2025||7||0
|-
|2026||2||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total||26||2
|}

:''Scores and results list Iraq's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Amyn goal.''

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Youssef Amyn
|-
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
| align="center"|1 || 16 November 2023 || [[Basra International Stadium]], [[Basra]], Iraq || {{fb|INA}} || align="center"|4–1 || align="center"|5–1 || [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – AFC second round|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|-
| align="center"|2 || 19 November 2024 || [[Sultan Qaboos Sports Complex]], [[Muscat]], Oman || {{fb|OMA}} || align="center"|1–0 || align="center"|1–0 || [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – AFC third round|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Viktoria Köln'''
* [[Middle Rhine Cup]]: 2020–21,<ref>{{cite web|title=Sieg gegen Aachen Viktoria Köln gewinnt den Mittelrhein- Pokal|url=https://mobil.ksta.de/sport/viktoria-koeln/sieg-gegen-aachen-viktoria-koeln-gewinnt-den-mittelrhein-pokal-38436376|date=29 May 2021|access-date=25 July 2022}}{{Dead link|date=February 2026 |bot=InternetArchiveBot }}</ref> 2021–22<ref>{{cite web|title=Viktoria Köln ist Mittelrheinpokal-Sieger|work=FuPa|url=https://www.fupa.net/news/fc-viktoria-koeln-viktoria-koeln-ist-mittelrheinpokal-sieger-2861731|date=21 May 2022|access-date=25 July 2022|archive-date=25 July 2022|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20220725165934/https://www.fupa.net/news/fc-viktoria-koeln-viktoria-koeln-ist-mittelrheinpokal-sieger-2861731|url-status=dead}}</ref>
'''AEK Larnaca FC'''
* [[Cypriot Super Cup]]: 2025

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
* {{WorldFootball.net|youssef-amyn}}
* {{DFB|youssef-amyn}}
* {{Olympics.com|youssef-amyn}}

{{AEK Larnaca squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Iraq squads
| bg          = #017B3D
| fg          = white
| bordercolor = black
| list =
{{Iraq squad 2023 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq men's football squad 2024 Summer Olympics}}
{{Iraq squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Amyn, Youssef}}
[[Category:2003 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Essen]]
[[Category:Iraqi men's footballers]]
[[Category:Iraq men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Iraq men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:German men's footballers]]
[[Category:Germany men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Kurdish people in Iraq]]
[[Category:German people of Iraqi descent]]
[[Category:German people of Kurdish descent]]
[[Category:Men's association football forwards]]
[[Category:FC Viktoria Köln players]]
[[Category:Eintracht Braunschweig players]]
[[Category:Al Wehda FC players]]
[[Category:AEK Larnaca FC players]]
[[Category:2. Bundesliga players]]
[[Category:3. Liga players]]
[[Category:Saudi Pro League players]]
[[Category:German expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:German expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Saudi Arabia]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Saudi Arabia]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Cyprus]]
[[Category:2023 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2024 Summer Olympics]]
[[Category:Olympic footballers for Iraq]]
[[Category:21st-century German sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century Iraqi sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]