{{Short description|Footballer (born 2005)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=August 2023}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Can Uzun
|image = 
|caption = 
|full_name = Can Yılmaz Uzun<ref name="auto">{{Cite web|url=https://www.tff.org/default.aspx?pageID=286&ftxtID=37790|title=Can Yılmaz Uzun U17 Millî Takımı'nda bir panzer -TamSaha Detay Sayfası TFF|website=tff.org}}</ref>
|birth_date = {{birth date and age|2005|11|11|df=y}}<ref name="World Football profile"/>
|birth_place = [[Regensburg]], Germany<ref name="World Football profile"/>
|height = 1.86 m<ref name="World Football profile"/>
|position = [[Attacking midfielder]]<ref name="World Football profile"/>
|currentclub = [[Eintracht Frankfurt]]
|clubnumber = 42
|youthyears1 = 
|youthclubs1 = [[SSV Jahn Regensburg|Jahn Regensburg]]
|youthyears2 = {{0|0000}}–2019
|youthclubs2 = [[FC Ingolstadt 04]]
|youthyears3 = 2019–2023
|youthclubs3 = [[1. FC Nürnberg]]
|years1 = 2023
|clubs1 = [[1. FC Nürnberg II]]
|caps1 = 4
|goals1 = 1
|years2 = 2023–2024
|clubs2 = [[1. FC Nürnberg]]
|caps2 = 33<!--DOMESTIC LEAGUE APPS ONLY -->
|goals2 = 16<!--DOMESTIC LEAGUE GOALS ONLY -->
|years3 = 2024–
|clubs3 = [[Eintracht Frankfurt]]
|caps3 = 41
|goals3 = 12
|nationalyears1 = 2021–2022
|nationalteam1 = [[Turkey national under-17 football team|Turkey U17]]
|nationalcaps1 = 10
|nationalgoals1 = 7
|nationalyears2 = 2022
|nationalteam2 = [[Turkey national under-18 football team|Turkey U18]]
|nationalcaps2 = 2
|nationalgoals2 = 0
|nationalyears3 = 2024–
|nationalteam3 = [[Turkey national football team|Turkey]]
|nationalcaps3 = 6
|nationalgoals3 = 1
|pcupdate = 17:28, 16 May 2026 (UTC)
|ntupdate = 23:59, 6 June 2026 (UTC)
|}}

'''Can Yılmaz Uzun''' (born 11 November 2005) is a professional footballer who plays as an [[attacking midfielder]] for {{German football updater|EinFrank}} club [[Eintracht Frankfurt]].<ref>{{cite web |title="Die perfekte Station für mich": Frankfurt schnappt sich Club-Talent Uzun |url=https://www.kicker.de/die-perfekte-station-fuer-mich-frankfurt-schnappt-sich-club-talent-uzun-996394/artikel |publisher=[[Kicker (magazine)|Kicker]] |access-date=2 July 2024}}</ref> Born in Germany, he plays for the [[Turkey national football team|Turkey national team]].<ref name="World Football profile">{{cite web |title=Can Yılmaz Uzun |url=https://www.worldfootball.net/person/pe614767/can-uzun/ |publisher=World Football |access-date=4 July 2023}}</ref>

==Club career==
===Early career===
Uzun, who hails from the [[Upper Palatinate]], began his club career in his hometown of [[Regensburg]], in the youth department of [[SSV Jahn Regensburg]], before moving to [[Upper Bavaria]]n side, [[FC Ingolstadt 04|FC Ingolstadt]].

===1. FC Nürnberg===
In 2019, he joined [[Franconia (region)|Franconian]] club, [[1. FC Nürnberg]], where he started playing for the U17 team from the 2020–21 season in the [[Under 17 Bundesliga]].<ref>{{Cite web |title=Can Uzun |url=https://www.fcn.de/nachwuchs/u19/spieler/profil/uzun/ |access-date=2023-05-29 |work=Official website of 1. FC Nürnberg |language=de}}</ref> In the season, which was cut short after five games, due to the [[COVID-19 pandemic]], Uzun scored five goals. In the following season, he scored 22 goals in 19 matches, becoming the second-highest scorer in the South/Southwest division behind [[SpVgg Unterhaching|Unterhaching]]'s [[Maurice Krattenmacher]].

====2022–23 season====
As a result, the forward signed his first professional contract with the club in February 2022.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2022-02-25 |title=2. Bundesliga, 1.FC Nürnberg secures top talent Can Uzun despite Bayern interest |url=https://www.sport1.de/news/fussball/2-bundesliga/2022/02/2-bundesliga-1fc-nurnberg-bindet-top-talent-can-uzun-trotz-bayern-interesse |access-date=29 May 2023 |language=de}}</ref> In the 2022–23 season, Uzun moved up to the U19 team and immediately became a regular starter. He scored 15 goals in 15 matches in the [[Under 19 Bundesliga (football)|Under 19 Bundesliga]], becoming the top scorer in the South/Southwest division.

After finishing his youth season, Uzun made his senior football debut. On 10 April 2023, he debuted for [[1. FC Nürnberg]]'s [[1. FC Nürnberg II|reserve team]] in the [[Regionalliga Bayern]], during a 3–4 defeat to [[1. FC Schweinfurt 05]], and he scored the equalizing goal to make it 3-3, only two minutes after being subbed on for [[Tim Handwerker]].<ref>{{Cite web |author=Julian Walter |date=2023-04-11 |title=Schnüdel win thrilling game 4-3 (1-1) against 1. FC Nürnberg II |url=https://www.fcschweinfurt1905.de/schnuedel-gewinnen-furioses-spiel-mit-43-11-beim-1-fc-nuernberg-ii/ |access-date=2023-05-29 |work=1. FC Schweinfurt 1905 |language=de-DE}}</ref>

Uzun appeared in three more Regionalliga matches afterward. Due to his impressive performances, he was called up to 1. FC Nürnberg's senior squad by interim coach, [[Dieter Hecking]], for the 32nd matchday. He made his 2. Bundesliga debut in a 2–2 draw against [[1. FC Magdeburg]], coming on as a late substitute.<ref>{{Cite web |author=Uli Digmayer |date=2023-05-16 |title=Professional debut at 17: Will Club talent Can Uzun become the new Christian Wück? |url=https://www.nordbayern.de/sport/1-fc-nuernberg/profidebut-mit-17-jahren-wird-club-talent-can-uzun-der-neue-christian-wuck-1.13254161 |access-date=2023-05-29 |work=Nordbayern.de |language=de}}</ref> He had another brief substitute appearance, and, on the final matchday, in a 1–0 victory over [[SC Paderborn 07]], he was included in the starting lineup.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2023-05-28 |title=Avoiding relegation: Schleimer saves the Club from relegation |url=https://www.br.de/nachrichten/sport/1-fc-nuernberg-vermeidet-relegation-am-letzten-spieltag,TfYlin5 |access-date=2023-05-29 |language=de}}</ref>

====2023–24 season====
For the [[2023–24 2. Bundesliga]], Uzun, along with two other A-Junior players, Nicolas Ortegel and [[Finn Jeltsch]], was permanently promoted to the first team, now coached by [[Cristian Fiél]]. Prior to the season, strikers, [[Kwadwo Duah]], [[Erik Shuranov]], [[Paul-Philipp Besong]], [[Pascal Köpke]], and [[Jermain Nischalke]] had left the club. Uzun rescued his team in the first home game of the season, with two goals, securing a point against [[Hannover 96]]. At 17 years and 268 days old, Uzun became FCN's youngest professional goalscorer, surpassing [[Christian Wück]] (18 years and 62 days).<ref>{{Cite web |title="That was the start": Uzun now FCN's youngest professional goalscorer |url=https://www.kicker.de/das-war-der-anfang-uzun-nun-juengster-fcn-torschuetze-im-profifussball-962464/artikel |access-date=2023-08-14 |language=de-DE}}</ref>

Just six days later, Uzun set another age record, this time, in the [[DFB-Pokal]]. He contributed three goals and two assists in a 9–1 victory over [[FC Oberneuland]], becoming the youngest player to score a hat-trick in the competition, breaking [[Olaf Thon]]’s record.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Uzun breaks next record: FCN striker now youngest hat-trick scorer in the DFB-Pokal |url=https://www.kicker.de/uzun-knackt-naechsten-rekord-fcn-stuermer-nun-juengster-pokal-dreierpacker-963364/artikel |access-date=2023-08-14 |language=de-DE}}</ref> In mid-September 2023, Uzun scored from a penalty in his first [[Franconian derby]], which ended in a 1–1 draw against [[SpVgg Greuther Fürth]].

===Eintracht Frankfurt===
====2024–25 season====
On 2 July 2024, Uzun signed a 5-year contract, with Eintracht Frankfurt.<ref>{{cite web |title=Can Uzun wird ein Adlerträger |url=https://profis.eintracht.de/news/can-uzun-wird-ein-adlertraeger-159567 |access-date=2 July 2024 |date=2 July 2024 |language=German}}</ref>

On 24 August 2024, he made his [[Bundesliga]] debut against [[Borussia Dortmund]] and, on 2 November 2024, he scored his first goal with the team against [[VfL Bochum|Bochum]]. He would go on to make 20 appearances and start six games in the Bundesliga, during his debut season in [[Hesse]]n, as Frankfurt finished in 3rd place in the [[2024-25 Bundesliga|Bundesliga]], their best domestic finish in over a decade, en route to qualifying for the [[2025-26 UEFA Champions League|Champions League]] for the 2025–26 season.

====2025–26 season====
Uzun was in the starting lineup for [[2025–26 Eintracht Frankfurt season|Frankfurt's]] ''Eröffnungsspiel'', against northern side, [[2025–26 SV Werder Bremen season|Werder Bremen]], on August 23, playing in the #10 position, and had an excellent game, scoring Frankfurt's first goal and assisting on the first of two goals, scored by winger, [[Jean-Mattéo Bahoya]] as Frankfurt cruised to a 4–1 win to begin the season.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.bundesliga.com/en/bundesliga/news/eintracht-frankfurt-werder-bremen-match-report-highlights-matchday-1-33650.com|title=Official &#124; Jean-Mattéo Bahoya and Can Uzun provide Eintracht Frankfurt with perfect start against Werder Bremen|first=Bundesliga.com|last=Bundesliga|date=23 August 2025|website=Bundesliga}}</ref>

==International career==
Uzun competed for the Turkish youth national teams. In 2021, he was called up to the [[Turkey national under-17 football team|Turkey U17]] squad and played in a few matches. In 2022, he competed with his squad at the [[UEFA European Under-17 Championship|U17 European Championship]], hosted in [[Israel]]. The Turkish team was eliminated after the group stage. However, Uzun managed to score his team's only two goals, during the competition.<ref name=":0" /><ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.fcn.de/news/artikel/u17-em-in-israel-erfahrung-fuers-leben/ |title=U17-EM in Israel: Erfahrung fürs Leben |language=de |access-date=2023-05-29}}</ref> In November 2022, he played two matches with the [[Turkey national under-18 football team|Turkey U18]], against the [[Uzbekistan national under-20 football team|Uzbekistan U18]] and captained the team.<ref name=":0">[https://www.idowa.de/sport/fussball/regensburger-can-uzun-mit-17-schon-so-abgeklaert-3086171.html ''Regensburger Can Uzun: Mit 17 schon so abgeklärt''], idowa.de, accessed January 30, 2024</ref>

The 17-year-old was called up for the first time to the [[Turkey national under-21 football team]] in September 2023, but, owing to a slight injury, he had to withdraw from two qualification matches for the [[2025 UEFA European Under-21 Championship|U21 European Championship in 2025]].<ref>[https://www.fcn.de/news/artikel/personal-update-zur-laenderspielpause/ Personal-Update zur Länderspielpause], fcn.de, September 5, 2023, accessed September 16, 2023.</ref>

Uzun, whose parents are both from Turkey, chose to represent the [[Turkish Football Federation]] (TFF) over the [[German Football Association|DFB]] in early March 2024, despite the fact that he could have represented either as a dual citizen.<ref>[https://www.t-online.de/sport/fussball/nationalmannschaft-deutschland/id_100357098/dfb-toptalent-can-uzun-erteilt-absage-ich-habe-auf-mein-herz-gehoert-.html ''Toptalent erteilt dem DFB eine Absage''], t-online.de, accessed March 4, 2024</ref><ref>{{Cite web |author=Hannes Nebelung |url=https://www.sportschau.de/regional/br/br-zwei-brueder-aus-bayern-yildiz-und-uzun-fuer-die-tuerkei-100.html |title=BR24 Sport: Zwei "Brothers" from Bavaria: Yildiz and Uzun for Turkey |language=de |access-date=March 4, 2024}}</ref>

For two international matches later that month, Turkish national coach, [[Vincenzo Montella]], called up three players for the first time, including Uzun.<ref>[https://www.transfermarkt.de/uzun-erstmals-fur-turkische-nationalelf-berufen-auch-kilicsoy-vor-debut/view/news/435049 ''Uzun called up for the Turkish national team for the first time – Kılıçsoy also set for debut''], transfermarkt.de, accessed March 15, 2024</ref> The striker was substituted in the last moments of Turkey's first match, which ended 0–1 against [[Hungary national football team|Hungary]]. He was later included in the tentative roster for the [[UEFA Euro 2024|2024 European Championship]] in Germany, but Uzun did not make the [[Turkey national football team|final squad]].<ref>[https://www.kicker.de/uzun-versteht-em-aus-nicht-mit-ganz-anderen-erwartungen-gekommen-1030730/artikel Uzun doesn't understand Euro exclusion: "I came with completely different expectations"], kicker.de, June 8, 2024, accessed June 8, 2024.</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 16 May 2026}}<ref>{{cite web |title=Can Yılmaz Uzun » Club matches |url=https://www.worldfootball.net/person/pe614767/can-uzun/club-matches/ |publisher=World Football |access-date=4 July 2023}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|[[DFB-Pokal]]
!colspan="2"|[[UEFA#Club|Europe]]
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|[[1. FC Nürnberg II]]
|[[2022–23 Regionalliga#Regionalliga Bayern|2022–23]]
|[[Regionalliga Bayern]]
|4||1||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||4||1
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[1. FC Nürnberg]]
|[[2022–23 1. FC Nürnberg season|2022–23]]
|[[2. Bundesliga]]
|3||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||7||1
|-
|[[2023–24 1. FC Nürnberg season|2023–24]]
|2. Bundesliga
|30||16||2||3||colspan="2"|—||32||19
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!33!!16!!2!!3!!0!!0!!35!!19
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Eintracht Frankfurt]]
|[[2024–25 Eintracht Frankfurt season|2024–25]]
|[[Bundesliga]]
|20||4||1||0||10{{efn|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa League]]}}||1||31||5
|-
|[[2025–26 Eintracht Frankfurt season|2025–26]]
|Bundesliga
|21||8||2||0||5{{efn|Appearances in [[UEFA Champions League]]}}||2||28||10
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!41!!12!!3!!0!!15!!3!!59!!15
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!78!!29!!5!!3!!15!!3!!98!!35
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 6 June 2026}}<ref name="NFT">{{NFT player}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Turkey national football team|Turkey]]
|-
|2024||1||0
|-
|2025||3||0
|-
|2026||2||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total||6||1
|}

:''Scores and results list Turkey's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Uzun goal.''<ref name="NFT"/>

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Can Uzun
! No. !! Date !! Venue !! Opponent !! Score !! Result !! Competition
|-
| align=center | 1 || 1 June 2026 || [[Şükrü Saracoğlu Stadium]], [[Istanbul]], Turkey || {{fb|MKD}} || align=center| 2–0 || align=center| 4–0 || [[Exhibition game#Association football|Friendly]] 
|}
{{notelist}}

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* {{TFF player}}
* {{DFB}}
* {{UEFA player}}

{{Eintracht Frankfurt squad}}
{{Turkey squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Uzun, Can}}
[[Category:2005 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Regensburg]]
[[Category:German people of Turkish descent]]
[[Category:Sportspeople of Turkish descent]]
[[Category:Turkish men's footballers]]
[[Category:German men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Turkey men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Turkey men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Regionalliga players]]
[[Category:2. Bundesliga players]]
[[Category:Bundesliga players]]
[[Category:1. FC Nürnberg players]]
[[Category:1. FC Nürnberg II players]]
[[Category:Eintracht Frankfurt players]]
[[Category:21st-century German sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century Turkish sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]