{{short description|Swedish footballer (born 2001)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=August 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
|        name = Benjamin Nygren
|       image = Benjamin Nygren (cropped).jpg
|     caption = Nygren playing for [[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]] in 2023
|   full_name = Erik Benjamin Nygren
|  birth_date = {{birth date and age|2001|7|8|df=yes}}
| birth_place = [[Gothenburg]], Sweden
|      height = 1.84 m
|    position = [[Winger (association football)|Winger]], [[attacking midfielder]], [[forward (assocation football)|forward]]
| currentclub = [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]]
|  clubnumber = 8
| youthclubs1 = Utbynäs SK
| youthyears1 = 2007–2012
| youthclubs2 = [[IFK Göteborg]]
| youthyears2 = 2013–2018
| years1 = 2018–2019 | clubs1 = [[IFK Göteborg]]                      | caps1 = 15 | goals1 = 6
| years2 = 2019–2022 | clubs2 = [[K.R.C. Genk|Genk]]                  | caps2 = 5  | goals2 = 1
| years3 = 2020–2022 | clubs3 = → [[SC Heerenveen|Heerenveen]] (loan) | caps3 = 45 | goals3 = 4
| years4 = 2022–2025 | clubs4 = [[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]]      | caps4 = 87 | goals4 = 25
| years5 = 2025–     | clubs5 = [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]]                | caps5 = 38  | goals5 = 16
| nationalyears1 = 2016–2018
|  nationalteam1 = [[Sweden men's national under-17 football team|Sweden U17]]
|  nationalcaps1 = 24
| nationalgoals1 = 10
| nationalyears2 = 2018–2019
|  nationalteam2 = [[Sweden men's national under-19 football team|Sweden U19]]
|  nationalcaps2 = 8
| nationalgoals2 = 6
| nationalyears3 = 2020–2022
|  nationalteam3 = [[Sweden national under-21 football team|Sweden U21]]
|  nationalcaps3 = 13
| nationalgoals3 = 2
| nationalyears4 = 2025–
|  nationalteam4 = [[Sweden men's national football team|Sweden]]
|  nationalcaps4 = 11
| nationalgoals4 = 3
| club-update = 19:53, 16 May 2026 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 17:06, 5 June 2026 (UTC)
}}
'''Erik Benjamin Nygren''' (born 8 July 2001) is a Swedish professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[winger (association football)|winger]] or [[attacking midfielder]] for [[Scottish Premiership]] club [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]] and the [[Sweden men's national football team|Sweden national team]].

==Club career==
===IFK Göteborg===
Nygren began playing football at Utbynäs SK when he was 5–6 years old. In 2013, at the age of 12, he joined [[IFK Göteborg]]. After impressing in the youth teams, Nygren made his first-team debut for IFK Göteborg in a friendly game against [[Örgryte IS]] on 24 March 2018.<ref>[https://www.aftonbladet.se/sportbladet/fotboll/a/7lQnz4/16-aring-fralste-blavitt 16-åring frälste Blåvitt], aftonbladet.se, 24 March 2018</ref> Two months after his debut, in May 2018, Nygren signed his first professional contract with Göteborg, a deal running until the end of 2020, despite interest from foreign clubs such as Manchester City, Bayern Munich and Inter.<ref>[https://www.expressen.se/gt/sport/fotboll/allsvenskan/loftet-skriver-pa-for-ifk-goteborg/ "Jag tackade nej till Manchester City"], expressen.se, 23 May 2018</ref> The new contract also saw the 16-year old Nygren promoted to the first team squad.<ref>[https://ifkgoteborg.se/nyheter/a-lag/2018/a-lagskontrakt-for-benjamin/ A-lagskontrakt för Benjamin], ifkgoteborg.se, 23 May 2018</ref>

Nygren's official debut for Göteborg came against [[Torns IF]] in the [[Svenska Cupen|Swedish Cup]] on 23 August 2018, where he made a brief appearance in the 4–0 win.<ref>[https://ifkgoteborg.se/match/2018/torns-if-ifk-goteborg/?t=matchrapport Nu väntar gruppspel i cupen], ifkgoteborg.se, 23 August 2018</ref> Before the season ended, Nygren also made his [[Allsvenskan]] debut in a game against [[Djurgårdens IF Fotboll|Djurgårdens IF]] on 31 October 2018, and he played in the last three games of the season. In the following match against [[Malmö FF]], Nygren started the game<ref>[https://www.fotbollskanalen.se/allsvenskan/17-aringen-nygren-gjorde-sin-forsta-allsvenska-start-i-blavitt-betyder-valdigt/ 17-åringen Nygren gjorde sin första allsvenska start i Blåvitt: "Betyder väldigt mycket"], fotbollskanalen.se, 5 November 2011</ref> and was in the starting line-up in the final game of the season against [[Örebro SK]], scoring twice in Göteborg's 3–1 victory.<ref>[https://www.aftonbladet.se/sportbladet/fotboll/a/G19GaQ/17-aringen-matchvinnare--blev-tvamalsskytt 17-åringen matchvinnare – blev tvåmålsskytt], aftonbladet.se, 11 November 2018</ref>

===Genk===
On 20 June 2019, 17-year old Nygren joined Belgian club [[K.R.C. Genk|Genk]] in a record deal for a fee around five million euros.<ref>[https://ifkgoteborg.se/nyheter/a-lag/2019/klart-med-genk-for-benjamin/ Klart med Genk för Benjamin], ifkgoteborg.se, 20 June 2019</ref><ref>[https://www.expressen.se/gt/sport/fotboll/allsvenskan/rekordaffaren-lamnar-sverige-for-50-miljoner/ Rekordaffären: Lämnar Sverige för 50 miljoner], expressen.se, 20 June 2020</ref> He signed a deal until June 2024.<ref>[https://www.krcgenk.be/en/news/3563/benjamin-nygren-chooses-genk BENJAMIN NYGREN CHOOSES GENK!], krcgenk.be, 20 June 2019</ref> Nygren made his debut for Genk in a [[Belgian Super Cup]] win against [[K.V. Mechelen]] on 20 July 2019.<ref>[https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2019/07/20/belgium/super-cup/krc-genk/kv-mechelen/3025379/ GENK VS. MECHELEN  3 - 0], Soccerway, 20 July 2019</ref> Nygren also scored Genk's first goal in his home debut on 27 July in a 2–1 win over [[K.V. Kortrijk]].<ref>[https://www.expressen.se/gt/sport/fotboll/just-nu-nygrens-succe-mal-direkt/ Nygrens drömdebut: "En jävligt go start"], expressen.se, 26 July 2019</ref>

To get some more playing time and experience, Nygren was loaned out to Dutch side [[SC Heerenveen]] on 6 October 2020 for two seasons.<ref>[https://www.expressen.se/gt/sport/fotboll/svenske-u21-stjarnan-byter-klubb-kvalitet/ Svenske U21-stjärnan byter klubb: "Kvalitet"], expressen.se, 6 October 2020</ref> In his first season, Nygren scored seven goals in 32 games (16 from start and 16 from the bench). Already after the first season, there was talk that he was on his way out of the club because he was not getting enough playing time, but he ended up staying and started the 2021–22 season out at the Dutch club.<ref>[https://fotbolltransfers.com/site/news/139560 Benjamin Nygren öppnar för att lämna Heerenveen], fotbolltransfers.com, 1 June 2021</ref>

===Nordsjælland===
On 30 January 2022, Nygren got his loan-spell at SC Heerenveen terminated and joined [[Danish Superliga]] club [[FC Nordsjælland]] on a deal until the end of 2025.<ref>[https://fcn.dk/2022/01/fc-nordsjaelland-koeber-svensk-angriber-i-belgien/ FC NORDSJÆLLAND KØBER SVENSK ANGRIBER I BELGIEN] {{Webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20220131051748/https://fcn.dk/2022/01/fc-nordsjaelland-koeber-svensk-angriber-i-belgien/ |date=2022-01-31 }}, fcn.dk, 30 January 2022</ref>

===Celtic===
On 27 June 2025, Nygren signed for [[Scottish Premiership]] champions [[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]] on a five-year-contract for an undisclosed fee.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.celticfc.com/news/2025/june/27/welcome-to-celtic--benjamin-nygren/|title=Welcome to Celtic, Benjamin Nygren|first=Celtic|last=FC|date=27 June 2025|website=Celtic FC}}</ref> On 3 August, he made his debut for the club in a 1–0 win against [[St Mirren F.C.|St Mirren]] in the league.<ref>{{cite web |title=Celtic began their Scottish Premiership season with a victory, but were far from convincing as they struggled to break down a resilient St Mirren |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/c3dpe12k9z8t#Report |website=bbc.com |access-date=9 August 2025}}</ref> On 10 August, he scored his first goal for the club in a 2–0 win against [[Aberdeen F.C.|Aberdeen]] in the league.<ref>{{cite web |title=Celtic made it two wins from two at the start of their Scottish Premiership title defence |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/c0kzxnrpxvyt |website=bbc.com |access-date=15 August 2025}}</ref>
On 27 December 2025, Nygren scored a double against Livingston in the league, his 9th and 10th goal of the season and his Celtic career until then.<ref>{{cite web |title=Celtic made it two wins from two at the start of their Scottish Premiership title defence |url= https://www.celticfc.com/news/2025/december/27/benjamin-nygren-delighted-with-his-double-as-hoops-win-again/ |website=celticfc.com|access-date=28 December 2025}}</ref>

==International career==
After having represented the [[Sweden men's national under-17 football team|Sweden U17]], [[Sweden men's national under-19 football team|U19]], and [[Sweden men's national under-21 football team|U21]] teams, Nygren made his full international debut for the [[Sweden men's national football team|Sweden national team]] on 22 March 2025 in a [[Exhibition game|friendly]] 1–0 loss against [[Luxembourg national football team|Luxembourg]], replacing [[Jesper Karlström]] in the 82nd minute.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Sweden vs. Luxembourg |url=https://www.svenskfotboll.se/matchfakta/luxemburg-sverige-landskamper-herr-senior/6155569/ |website=SvFF}}</ref> He scored his first international game goal three days later in a friendly 5–1 win against [[Northern Ireland national football team|Northern Ireland]] on 25 March 2025.<ref name="auto">{{Cite web |title=Sweden vs. Northern Ireland |url=https://www.svenskfotboll.se/matchfakta/sverige-nordirland-landskamper-herr-senior/6163347/ |website=SvFF}}</ref>

On 26 March 2026, Nygren assisted [[Viktor Gyökeres]]' opening goal in Sweden's 3–1 win against [[Ukraine national football team|Ukraine]] in the [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA second round|World Cup playoffs]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.heraldscotland.com/sport/25974725.play-highest-level-epl-rate-celtic-star-highly/|title=I play at the highest level in EPL and rate Celtic star very highly|last=Meikle|first=Blair|date=27 March 2026|website=The Herald|access-date=3 April 2026}}</ref>

On 12 May 2026, Nygren was named in the Sweden squad for the [[2026 FIFA World Cup]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=2026-05-12 |title=Mystiskt inlägg efter petningen |url=https://www.expressen.se/sport/fotboll/landslaget/har-ar-sveriges-trupp-till-fotbolls-vm-2026/ |access-date=2026-05-15 |website=www.expressen.se |language=sv}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 23 May 2026}}<ref name="soccerway">{{Soccerway|benjamin-nygren/517071|access-date=13 April 2025}}</ref>
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Svenska Cupen]], [[KNVB Cup]], [[Danish Cup]], [[Scottish Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|League cup{{efn|Includes [[Scottish League Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|Europe
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[IFK Göteborg|Göteborg]]
|[[2018 Allsvenskan|2018]]
|[[Allsvenskan]]
|3||2||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||3||2
|-
|[[2019 Allsvenskan|2019]]
|Allsvenskan
|12||4||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||12||4
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!15!!6!!0!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!15!!6
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[KRC Genk|Genk]]
|[[2019–20 KRC Genk season|2019–20]]
|[[Belgian Pro League]]
|2||1||1||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||1{{efn|Appearance in [[Belgian Super Cup]]}}||0||4||0
|-
|[[2020–21 KRC Genk season|2020–21]]
|Belgian Pro League
|3||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||0||0||3||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!5!!1!!1!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!0!!0!!1!!0!!7!!0
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[SC Heerenveen|Heerenveen]] (loan)
|[[2020–21 SC Heerenveen season|2020–21]]
|[[Eredivisie]]
|28||4||4||3||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||32||7
|-
|[[2021–22 SC Heerenveen season|2021–22]]
|Eredivisie
|17||0||2||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||19||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!45!!4!!6!!3!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!51!!7
|-
|rowspan="5"|[[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]]
|[[2021–22 Danish Superliga|2021–22]]
|[[Danish Superliga]]
|12||1||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||12||1
|-
|[[2022–23 Danish Superliga|2022–23]]
|Danish Superliga
|25||3||6||3||colspan="2"|—||0||0||colspan="2"|—||31||6
|-
|[[2023–24 FC Nordsjælland season|2023–24]]
|Danish Superliga
|20||6||2||1||colspan="2"|—||9{{efn|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa Conference League]]}}||5||colspan="2"|—||31||12
|-
|[[2024–25 FC Nordsjælland season|2024–25]]
|Danish Superliga
|30||15||2||1||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||32||16
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!87!!25!!10!!4!!colspan="2"|—!!9!!5!!colspan="2"|—!!106!!35
|-
|[[Celtic F.C.|Celtic]]
|[[2025–26 Celtic F.C. season|2025–26]]
|[[Scottish Premiership]]
|38||16||5||1||3||0||12{{efn|Two appearances in [[UEFA Champions League]], ten appearances and four goals in [[UEFA Europa League]]}}||4||colspan="2"|—||58||21
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!190!!52!!22!!9!!3!!0!!21!!9!!1!!0!!237!!69
|}
{{notelist}}

=== International ===
{{updated|match played 4 June 2026}}<ref>{{cite web |title=Benjamin Nygren, SvFF |url=https://www.svenskfotboll.se/spelarfakta/benjamin-nygren/032c9496-de34-48cf-a667-16fe01 |website=SvFF}}</ref>
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="2"|[[Sweden men's national football team|Sweden]]
|2025||7||3
|-
|2026||4||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!11!!3
|}

: ''Scores and results list Sweden's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Nygren goal.''

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+List of international goals scored by Benjamin Nygren
! scope="col" |No.
! scope="col" |Date
! scope="col" |Venue
! scope="col" |Opponent
! scope="col" |Score
! scope="col" |Result
! scope="col" |Competition
! scope="col" class="unsortable" |{{Abbr|Ref.|References}}
|-
| align="center" |1 || 25 March 2025 || [[Strawberry Arena]], [[Solna]], Sweden || {{fb|NIR}} || align="center" |2–0 || align="center" |5–1 || [[Exhibition game#Association football|Friendly]] || align="center" |<ref name="auto"/>
|-
| align="center" |2 || 6 June 2025 || [[Puskás Aréna]], [[Budapest]], Hungary || {{fb|HUN}} || align=center|1–0 || align=center| 2–0 || Friendly || align="center" |
|-
| align="center" |3 || 15 November 2025 || [[Stade de Genève]], [[Geneva]], Switzerland || {{fb|SUI}} || align=center|1–1 || align=center| 1–4 ||[[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – UEFA Group B|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Celtic'''
* [[Scottish Premiership]]: [[2025–26 Scottish Premiership|2025–26]]<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.theguardian.com/football/2026/may/16/celtic-stun-hearts-at-the-last-in-dramatic-final-day-shootout-to-retain-scottish-title|title=Celtic stun Hearts at the last in dramatic final-day shootout to retain Scottish title|first=Guardian|last=sport|work=The Guardian |date=16 May 2026}}</ref>
* [[Scottish Cup]]: [[2025–26 Scottish Cup|2025-26]]<ref>{{Cite web |last=Cuddihy |first=Paul |date=2026-05-23 |title=Celtic are the Double winners! |url=https://www.celticfc.com/news/2026/may/23/celtic-are-the-double-winners-/ |url-status=live |access-date=2026-05-23 |website=Celtic FC}}</ref>

'''Individual'''
* [[Danish Superliga]] Team of the Year: [[2024–25 Danish Superliga|2024–25]]<ref>{{cite web| url=https://www.vff.dk/nyhed/sport/15062-serginho-pa-arets-hold-i-3f-superligaen| title=Serginho på Årets Hold i 3F Superligaen| trans-title=Serginho on the Team of the Year in the 3F Superliga| publisher=Viborg FF| language=da| date=2 June 2025| accessdate=2 June 2025}}</ref>
* [[PFA Scotland Team of the Year]] ([[Scottish Premiership|Premiership]]): [[PFA Scotland Team of the Year#Premiership 12|2025-26]]<ref>{{Cite web |date=2026-04-17 |title=Premiership Team of the Year |url=https://pfascotland.co.uk/premiership-team-of-the-year/ |url-status=live |access-date=2026-05-23 |website=PFA Scotland}}</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* {{SvFF player|id=032c9496-de34-48cf-a667-16fe012f6640|fid=772801}}
* {{SvFF national player|id=032c9496-de34-48cf-a667-16fe012f6640}}
* {{ifkdb|name=#14 Benjamin Nygren}}

{{Celtic F.C. squad}}
{{Sweden squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Nygren, Benjamin}}
[[Category:2001 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Swedish men's footballers]]
[[Category:Footballers from Gothenburg]]
[[Category:Men's association football wingers]]
[[Category:Sweden men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Sweden men's under-21 international footballers]]
[[Category:Sweden men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Allsvenskan players]]
[[Category:Belgian Pro League players]]
[[Category:Eredivisie players]]
[[Category:Danish Superliga players]]
[[Category:Scottish Professional Football League players]]
[[Category:IFK Göteborg players]]
[[Category:KRC Genk players]]
[[Category:SC Heerenveen players]]
[[Category:FC Nordsjælland players]]
[[Category:Celtic F.C. players]]
[[Category:Swedish expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Swedish expatriate sportspeople in Belgium]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Belgium]]
[[Category:Swedish expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Swedish expatriate sportspeople in Denmark]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Denmark]]
[[Category:21st-century Swedish sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]