{{Short description|Assyrian Iraqi footballer}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=June 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Rebin Sulaka
| image = 240519 FC 서울 포토타임 (Rebin Sulaka).jpg
| caption = Sulaka with [[FC Seoul]] in 2024
| fullname = Rebin Gharib Sulaka Adhamat<ref name=GSA>{{GSA player|rebin-solaka/27975|access-date=8 October 2021}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|1992|4|12|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Ankawa, Erbil]], Iraq<ref name=GSA/>
| height = 1.92 m<ref name="FIFA Arab 2021">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce14/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA Arab Cup Qatar 2021: List of players: Iraq |publisher=[[FIFA]] |page=4 |date=4 December 2021 |access-date=12 December 2022}}</ref>
| currentclub = [[Port F.C.|Port]]
| clubnumber = 22
| position = [[Defender (association football)#Centre-back|Centre back]]
| youthyears1 = 
| youthclubs1 = [[Eskilstuna City FK|Eskilstuna City]]
| years1 = 2010–2013
| clubs1 = [[Eskilstuna City FK|Eskilstuna City]]
| caps1 = 53
| goals1 = 4
| years2 = 2013–2014
| clubs2 = [[Dalkurd FF|Dalkurd]]
| caps2 = 21
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2014–2015
| clubs3 = [[Ljungskile SK]]
| caps3 = 20
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2015
| clubs4 = [[Syrianska FC|Syrianska]]
| caps4 = 9
| goals4 = 0
| years5 = 2015–2016
| clubs5 = → [[AFC United|Eskilstuna]] (loan)
| caps5 = 5
| goals5 = 0
| years6 = 2016–2017
| clubs6 = [[Elverum Fotball|Elverum]]
| caps6 = 35
| goals6 = 1
| years7 = 2017–2018
| clubs7 = [[Al-Markhiya Sports Club|Al-Markhiya]]
| caps7 = 22
| goals7 = 1
| years8 = 2018–2019
| clubs8 = [[Al-Khor SC|Al-Khor]]
| caps8 = 14
| goals8 = 1
| years9 = 2019
| clubs9 = [[Al-Shahania Sports Club|Al-Shahania]]
| caps9 = 7
| goals9 = 2
| years10 = 2019–2020
| clubs10 = [[FK Radnički Niš|Radnički Niš]]
| caps10 = 13
| goals10 = 0
| years11 = 2020–2021
| clubs11 = [[FC Arda Kardzhali|Arda Kardzhali]]
| caps11 = 12
| goals11 = 0
| years12 = 2021
| clubs12 = [[Levski Sofia]]
| caps12 = 5
| goals12 = 0
| years13 = 2021–2023
| clubs13 = [[Buriram United F.C.|Buriram United]]
| caps13 = 71
| goals13 = 1
| years14 = 2023–2024
| clubs14 = [[Brommapojkarna]]
| caps14 = 4
| goals14 = 0
| years15 = 2024
| clubs15 = [[FC Seoul]]
| caps15 = 3
| goals15 = 0
| years16 = 2024–2025
| clubs16 = [[FC Schaffhausen|Schaffhausen]]
| caps16 = 8
| goals16 = 1
| years17 = 2025
| clubs17 = [[Erbil SC]]
| caps17 = 9
| goals17 = 0
| years18 = 2025–
| clubs18 = [[Port F.C.|Port]]
| caps18 = 6
| goals18 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2015–
| nationalteam1 = [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
| nationalcaps1 = 47
| nationalgoals1 = 1
| pcupdate = 4 November 2024
| ntupdate = 26 March 2024
}}

'''Rebin Gharib Sulaka Adhamat''' ({{langx|ar|ريبين غريب سولاقا عظمت}}; born 12 April 1992) is an Iraqi professional footballer who plays as a [[Defender (association football)#Centre-back|centre back]] for [[Thai League 1]] club [[Port F.C.|Port]] and the [[Iraq national football team|Iraq national team]].

==Club career==
Sulaka started playing football in [[Eskilstuna City FK|Eskilstuna City]], where he as a 15-year-old made his debut in the first team. After the 2012 season, he did not renew the contract with the club. For the 2013 season he signed for Dalkurd FF. In January 2014 he signed a three-year contract with Ljungskile SK. In February 2015 wrote Sulaka on for Syrianska.<ref name="fbsub">{{cite web | title=KLART: Rebin Sulaka till Syrianska FC (Swedish Language)| url=https://www.fotbolltransfers.com/site/news/49400|website=Fotbolltransfer.com}}</ref> In August 2015, he was loaned out to AFC United.

===Elverum===
Sulaka signed for Norwegian club [[Elverum Fotball|Elverum]] for the [[2016 2. Divisjon|2016 season]].<ref>{{cite web|title=Seier over Nybergsund og midtstopper signert !|url=http://kxweb.no/portal/theme/organization/news/show.do?id=9349644|website=Kcweb.no}}</ref> After a successful season that ended in promotion to the [[2017 Norwegian First Division|second tier]], he extended his contract for the 2017 season.<ref>{{cite web|title=Sulaka og Tervaniemi klar for 2017|url=http://www.elverumfotball.no/nyheter/sulaka-og-tervaniemi-klar-for-2017|website=Elverumfotbaa.no|language=nb-NO|access-date=14 February 2017|archive-date=31 January 2017|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170131192659/http://www.elverumfotball.no/nyheter/sulaka-og-tervaniemi-klar-for-2017|url-status=dead}}</ref> He left the club mid-season and moved to Qatar.

===Al-Markhiya===
On 9 July 2017, Sulaka signed for Qatari club [[Al-Markhiya Sports Club|Al-Markhiya]].<ref>{{cite web|title=Rebin Sulaka has been in Qatar for one day and he's already dominating the newspapers|url=https://twitter.com/SoccerIraq/status/884333787022106625|website=Twitter.com|language=en}}</ref> He made his debut on 16 September, playing the full 90 minutes in a shock victory against giants [[Al Sadd SC|Al-Sadd]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.beinsports.com/ar/%D9%83%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%85/%D9%81%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D9%88/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D8%AF-%D9%8A%D8%B3%D8%AA%D9%87%D9%84-%D9%85%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%B1%D8%AA%D9%87-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%AF%D9%88%D8%B1/653345|title=السد يستهل مسيرته في دوري النجوم بالخسارة من المرخية|website=Beinsports.com|access-date=15 December 2021}}</ref> He was picked in the team of the week for his performance.<ref>{{cite web|title=QSL TOTW1|url=https://twitter.com/alkasschannel/status/909162048432496640}}</ref>

===Radnički Niš===
Recently arrived at [[FK Radnički Niš|Radnički Niš]], coach [[Milorad Kosanović]] expressed to the club management Sulaka to be his main desire to reinforce the defense, so the Serbian club signed him on 30 August 2019, a day before the closing of the transfer-window in Serbia and most of Europe.<ref>[https://www.zurnal.rs/fudbal/super-liga/84826/radnicki-doveo-reprezentativca-iraka?lang=lat Radnički doveo reprezentativca Iraka] at [[Sportski žurnal]], 30 August 2019 {{in lang|sr}}</ref>

===Levski Sofia===
In January 2021 Sulaka signed a six-month deal with [[Levski Sofia]].<ref>{{cite news |url=https://gong.bg/bg-football/efbet-liga/multimedia/video/levski-potvyrdi-sinite-podpisaha-sys-sulaka-620605|title=Левски потвърди: "Сините" подписаха със Сулака|access-date=3 September 2021 |date=12 January 2021|language=Bulgarian |website=Gong.bg}}</ref> In the spring of 2021 he left the club, which was experiencing financial troubles.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://topsport.bg/levski/rebin-sulaka-raztrogva-s-levski-za-neizplateni-zaplati.html|title=Ребин Сулака разтрогва с Левски за неизплатени заплати|access-date=3 September 2021 |date=21 April 2021|language=Bulgarian |website=Topsport.bg}}</ref>

===FC Seoul===
On 21 February 2024, Sulaka joined [[FC Seoul]] of South Korean [[K League 1]].<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.starnewskorea.com/stview.php?no=2024022113262674160|script-title=ko:[오피셜] 서울, '아시안컵 종횡무진' 이라크 센터백 술라카 품었다... "수호신 위해 최선 다할 것"|access-date=21 February 2024 |date=21 February 2024|language=Korean |website=starnewskorea}}</ref> He played in three matches during the season before coming to a mutual agreement with the club to terminate the contract in June.<ref>{{cite web|last1=Choi|first1=Byeong-jin|script-title=ko:[오피셜] FC서울, '이라크 국대 DF 술라카'와 계약 해지...반시즌 만에 작별|url=https://mydaily.co.kr/page/view/2024062711322935883|website=Mydaily|access-date=27 June 2024|language=ko|date=27 June 2024}}</ref>

===Schaffhausen===
On 9 September 2024, Sulaka signed with [[FC Schaffhausen|Schaffhausen]] in Switzerland.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=FC Schaffhausen|url=https://www.fcschaffhausen.ch/2024/09/09/irakischer-nationalspieler-zum-fcs/|title=Irakischer Nationalspieler zum FCS|trans-title=Iraqi international joins FCS|date=9 September 2024|access-date=11 September 2024|language=de}}</ref>

==International career==
On 12 June 2015, Rebin played his first game for the [[Iraq national football team|Iraq national team]] against [[Japan national football team|Japan]] in [[Yokohama]] where the match ended in a 4–0 defeat.<ref>{{cite web|title=Getting to know Rebin Sulaka |website=Socceriraq.net|url=http://socceriraq.net/2017/06/20/getting-know-rebin-sulaka/|date=20 June 2017}}</ref> Rebin was present in the final rounds of Iraq's [[2018 FIFA World Cup qualification (AFC)|2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying]] campaign, in which Iraq failed to qualify to the final tournament. In 2019, he was chosen in the Iraqi squad for the [[2019 AFC Asian Cup]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.goal.com/en-au/news/afc-asian-cup-2019-all-squads-revealed-final-23-man-lists/ney7a241n52o1j1ga2b9gch3u|title=Every AFC Asian Cup 2019 Squad Revealed - Final 23-man lists |website=Goal.com|access-date=15 December 2021}}</ref>

On 20 February 2022, Rebin announced his retirement from international football for personal reasons.<ref>{{cite web |title=Rebin Sulaka announces retirement|url=https://twitter.com/AlrabiaSportsTV/status/1495352902520614915|language=ar}}</ref> However, he announced a reversal of his retirement on 16 August 2023.<ref>{{cite web |title=Rebin Sulaka reverses retirement|url=https://twitter.com/IraqFootballPod/status/1691866557700276315|language=en}}</ref> In December 2023, he was named in the Iraqi squad for the [[2023 AFC Asian Cup]] in Qatar where he scored his first international goal against [[Vietnam national football team|Vietnam]] on 24 January 2024.<ref>{{cite web |title=شاهد: بطريقةٍ جديدةٍ.. مدربُ المنتخب الوطنيّ كاساس يعلنُ القائمةَ النهائية لكأسِ آسيا 2023 والمُؤلفة من 26 لاعباً|trans-title=Watch: National team coach Casas announces the final list for the 2023 Asian Cup, consisting of 26 players|url=https://twitter.com/IRAQFA/status/1740025730233421973|website=Twitter |publisher=Iraq Football Association|language=ar|date=27 December 2023|access-date=27 December 2023}}</ref>

==Personal life==
Sulaka was born in the suburb of [[Ankawa]] in [[Erbil]], [[Iraq]] into an ethnic [[Assyrian Christian]] family. In 2002, at the age of 10, Sulaka moved to [[Sweden]] with his family.

==Career statistics==
===International===
{{updated|match played 26 March 2024}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="8"|[[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
|2015||1||0
|-
|2016||1||0
|-
|2017||8||0
|-
|2018||5||0
|-
|2019||7||0
|-
|2021||5||0
|-
|2023||6||0
|-
|2024||6||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total||38||1
|}

:''Scores and results list Iraq's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Sulaka goal.''
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! No. !! Date !! Venue !! Opponent !! Score !! Result !! Competition
|-
| 1. || 24 January 2024 || [[Jassim bin Hamad Stadium]], [[Al Rayyan]], [[Qatar]] || {{fb|VIE}} || align=center|'''1'''–1 || align=center| 3–2 || [[2023 AFC Asian Cup]]
|-
|}

==Honours==
'''Buriram United'''
*[[Thai League 1]]: [[2021–22 Thai League 1|2021–22]], [[2022–23 Thai League 1|2022–23]]
* [[Thai FA Cup]]: [[2021–22 Thai FA Cup|2021–22]], [[2022–23 Thai FA Cup|2022–23]]
* [[Thai League Cup]]: [[2021–22 Thai League Cup|2021–22]], [[2022–23 Thai League Cup|2022–23]]

''' Port '''

* [[Piala Presiden (Indonesia)|Piala Presiden]]: [[2025 Piala Presiden (Indonesia)|2025]]
* [[Thai League Cup]]: [[2025–26 Thai League Cup|2025-2026]]

'''Iraq'''
* [[King's Cup (Thailand)|King's Cup]]: [[2023 King's Cup|2023]], [[2025 King's Cup|2025]]

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* {{Soccerway|rebin-sulaka/227020}}
* {{NFF|3212560}}
* {{K League player|20240147}}

{{Port F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Iraq squads
| bg = #007A3D
| fg = white
| bordercolor = black
|list1=
{{Iraq squad 2019 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq squad 2023 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Sulaka, Rebin}}
[[Category:1992 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Assyrian footballers]]
[[Category:Iraqi men's footballers]]
[[Category:Iraq men's international footballers]]
[[Category:People from Erbil]]
[[Category:Iraqi emigrants to Sweden]]
[[Category:Men's association football central defenders]]
[[Category:Chaldean Catholics]]
[[Category:Dalkurd FF players]]
[[Category:Ljungskile SK players]]
[[Category:Syrianska FC players]]
[[Category:AFC Eskilstuna players]]
[[Category:Eskilstuna City FK players]]
[[Category:Elverum Fotball players]]
[[Category:Al-Markhiya SC players]]
[[Category:Al-Khor SC players]]
[[Category:Al Shahaniya SC players]]
[[Category:FK Radnički Niš players]]
[[Category:FC Arda Kardzhali players]]
[[Category:PFC Levski Sofia players]]
[[Category:Buriram United F.C. players|Rebin Sulaka]]
[[Category:FC Seoul players]]
[[Category:FC Schaffhausen players]]
[[Category:Qatar Stars League players]]
[[Category:Allsvenskan players]]
[[Category:K League 1 players]]
[[Category:First Professional Football League (Bulgaria) players]]
[[Category:Thai League 1 players|Rebin Sulaka]]
[[Category:2019 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:2023 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Norway]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Qatar]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Serbia]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Bulgaria]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Thailand]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in South Korea]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Switzerland]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Norway]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Qatar]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Serbia]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Bulgaria]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Thailand]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in South Korea]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Switzerland]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:IF Brommapojkarna players]]