{{Short description|Footballer (born 2003)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=June 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Petar Sučić
| image = Petar Sučić.png
| image_size = 190px
| caption = Sučić with [[GNK Dinamo Zagreb|Dinamo Zagreb]] in 2024
| full_name = 
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|2003|10|25|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Livno]], Bosnia and Herzegovina
| height = 1.83 m
| position = [[Midfielder#Central midfielder|Central midfielder]]
| currentclub = [[Inter Milan]]
| clubnumber = 8
| youthyears1 = 2013–2018
| youthclubs1 = NK Sportprevent Bugojno
| youthyears2 = 2018–2020
| youthclubs2 = [[NK Iskra Bugojno|Iskra Bugojno]]
| youthyears3 = 2020–2022
| youthclubs3 = [[HŠK Zrinjski Mostar|Zrinjski Mostar]]
| years1 = 2022–2025
| clubs1 = [[GNK Dinamo Zagreb|Dinamo Zagreb]]
| caps1 = 51
| goals1 = 6
| years2 = 2022–2023
| clubs2 = → [[HŠK Zrinjski Mostar|Zrinjski Mostar]] (loan)
| caps2 = 27
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2025–
| clubs3 = [[Inter Milan]]
| caps3 = 34
| goals3 = 2
| nationalyears1 = 2021–2022
| nationalteam1 = [[Bosnia and Herzegovina national under-19 football team|Bosnia and Herzegovina U19]]
| nationalcaps1 = 16
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2022–2023
| nationalteam2 = [[Bosnia and Herzegovina national under-21 football team|Bosnia and Herzegovina U21]]
| nationalcaps2 = 8
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2024–
| nationalteam3 = [[Croatia national football team|Croatia]]
| nationalcaps3 = 16
| nationalgoals3 = 1
| club-update = 19:36, 23 May 2026 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 23:31, 2 June 2026 (UTC)
}}

'''Petar Sučić''' (born 25 October 2003) is a professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Midfielder#Central midfielder|central midfielder]] for [[Serie A]] club [[Inter Milan]]. Born in Bosnia and Herzegovina, he plays for the [[Croatia national football team|Croatia national team]].

==Club career==

===Dinamo Zagreb===
Sučić started playing football at a local club, before joining [[NK Iskra Bugojno|Iskra Bugojno]]'s youth setup in 2018. In 2020, he switched to [[HŠK Zrinjski Mostar|Zrinjski Mostar]]'s youth academy. In January 2022, he signed a five-year deal with Croatian side [[GNK Dinamo Zagreb|Dinamo Zagreb]].<ref>{{cite news|url=https://reprezentacija.ba/394636-hrvatski-mediji-hvale-bh-talenta-koji-je-stigao-u-dinamo|title=Hrvatski mediji hvale bh. talenta koji je stigao u Dinamo|website=reprezentacija.ba|date=3 July 2023|accessdate=5 July 2023|language=Bosnian}}</ref>

In June, he was sent on a season-long loan to his former team Zrinjski Mostar.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://scsport.ba/omladinski-reprezentativac-bih-petar-sucic-iz-dinamo-zagreba-stigao-na-posudbu-u-zrinjski|title=Omladinski reprezentativac BiH Petar Sučić iz Dinamo Zagreba stigao na posudbu u Zrinjski|website=scsport.ba|date=17 June 2022|accessdate=20 June 2022|language=Bosnian}}</ref> He made his professional debut in a [[2022–23 UEFA Champions League qualifying phase and play-off round#First qualifying round|UEFA Champions League qualifier]] against [[FC Sheriff Tiraspol|Sheriff Tiraspol]] on 6 July at the age of 18.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://sportsport.ba/fudbal/protiv-zrinjskog-favorita-nema-prvak-bih-ima-realne-sanse-za-drugo-pretkolo/429359|title=Protiv Zrinjskog favorita nema: Prvak BiH ima realne šanse za drugo pretkolo|website=sportsport.ba|date=6 July 2022|accessdate=8 July 2022|language=Bosnian}}</ref>

Sučić made his official debut for Dinamo Zagreb in the [[2023 Croatian Football Super Cup|2023 Croatian Super Cup]] game against their [[Eternal derby (Croatia)|biggest rivals]] [[HNK Hajduk Split|Hajduk Split]] on 15 July 2023 and managed to win his first trophy.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://sportsport.ba/fudbal/mladi-bh-talenat-u-debiju-za-dinamo-odusevio-i-osvojio-trofej-nije-moglo-biti-ljepse/454642|title=Mladi bh. talenat u debiju za Dinamo oduševio i osvojio trofej: Nije moglo biti ljepše|website=sportsport.ba|date=16 July 2023|accessdate=19 July 2023|language=Bosnian}}</ref> A week later, he made his [[2023–24 Croatian Football League|league]] debut against the same opponent.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://scsport.ba/hajduk-preokretom-i-golom-u-nadoknadi-porazio-dinamo-usred-maksimira|title=Hajduk preokretom i golom u nadoknadi porazio Dinamo usred Maksimira|website=scsport.ba|date=21 July 2023|accessdate=21 July 2023|language=Bosnian}}</ref>

In December 2023, he extended his contract with the club until June 2028.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://reprezentacija.ba/410304-veliki-bh-talenat-potpisao-novi-ugovor-sa-dinamom|title=Veliki bh. talenat potpisao novi ugovor sa Dinamom|website=reprezentacija.ba|date=1 December 2023|accessdate=1 December 2023|language=Bosnian}}</ref> In May 2025, on the last match day of the [[2024–25 Croatian Football League|Croatian League]], Sučić scored the game winner in a 1–0 win against [[NK Varaždin (2012)|Varaždin]], which turned out to be his last game for Dinamo.

===Inter Milan===
On 4 June 2025, Sučić joined [[Serie A]] club [[Inter Milan]], signing a five-year contract.<ref>{{cite press release|url=https://www.inter.it/en/news/petar-sucic-joins-inter|title=Petar Sučić joins Inter|date=4 June 2025|access-date=4 June 2025|publisher=Inter Milan}}</ref> He made his Inter debut on 17 June impressing in a 1–1 draw with [[C.F. Monterrey|Monterrey]] in the [[2025 FIFA Club World Cup]] [[2025 FIFA Club World Cup Group E|group stage]], substituting [[Kristjan Asllani]] in the 68th minute.<ref>{{cite web | title=Kakav debi! Petar Sučić zaigrao za Inter na Svjetskom prvenstvu pred više od 80 000 gledatelja | website=[[Sportske novosti]] | date=2025-06-18 | access-date=2025-06-18 | url=https://sportske.jutarnji.hr/sn/nogomet/nogomet-medjunarodni/kakav-debi-petar-sucic-zaigrao-za-inter-na-svjetskom-prvenstvu-pred-vise-od-80-000-gledatelja-15595521 | language=hr | first=Ante | last=Buškulić}}</ref>

==International career==
Sučić was born in Bosnia and Herzegovina to a [[Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina|Croat]] family. He represented [[Bosnia and Herzegovina national football team|Bosnia and Herzegovina]] at various youth levels. He also served as a [[Captain (association football)|captain]] of the [[Bosnia and Herzegovina national under-19 football team|under-19 team]] under coach [[Ivica Barbarić]].

In March 2024, he decided that he would represent Croatia instead of Bosnia and Herzegovina.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://sportsport.ba/fudbal/petar-sucic-hrvatska-reprezentacija-ljubav-domovina/470171#google_vignette|title=Petar Sučić nakon odlaska iz dresa BiH: "Hrvatska je moja domovina" - SportSport.ba}}</ref> Sučić was called up to the senior [[Croatia national football team|Croatia national team]] for the first time for the [[2024–25 UEFA Nations League A|Nations League]] games against [[Portugal national football team|Portugal]] and [[Poland national football team|Poland]] in September 2024.<ref>{{cite news|title=Dalić objavio popis igrača za početak Lige nacija|url=https://hns.team/vijesti/28191/dalic-objavio-popis-igraca-za-pocetak-lige-nacija/|access-date=4 September 2024|publisher=Croatian Football Federation|date=19 August 2024|language=hr}}</ref> He debuted on 5 September 2024 against Portugal at [[Estádio da Luz]]. He substituted [[Luka Modrić]] in the 77th minute of the 2–1 defeat.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=ESPN|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/698888/croatia-portugal|title=Portugal v Croatia game report|date=5 September 2024}}</ref>

==Personal life==
His cousin, [[Luka Sučić]], is also a professional footballer.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://sportske.jutarnji.hr/sn/nogomet/hnl/klubovi/dinamo/mladi-talent-postaje-sve-vaznija-karika-dinama-prvijenac-protiv-hajduka-bio-bi-mi-najdrazi-gol-karijere-15403226|title=Sportske novosti - Mladi talent postaje sve važnija karika Dinama: 'Prvijenac protiv Hajduka bio bi mi najdraži gol karijere'|date=10 December 2023|website=sportske.jutarnji.hr}}</ref>

==Career statistics==

===Club===
{{updated|match played 23 May 2026}}<ref name=soccerway>{{cite web|url=https://int.soccerway.com/players/petar-sucic/636946|title=P. Sučić|website=Soccerway|access-date=8 March 2024}}</ref>
{|class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan=2|Club
!rowspan=2|Season
!colspan=3|League
!colspan=2|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Bosnia and Herzegovina Football Cup|Bosnian Cup]], [[Croatian Football Cup|Croatian Cup]], [[Coppa Italia]]}}
!colspan=2|Europe
!colspan=2|Other
!colspan=2|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|[[HŠK Zrinjski Mostar|Zrinjski Mostar]] (loan)
|[[2022–23 Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina|2022–23]]
|[[Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina|Bosnian Premier League]]
|27||0||5||0||5{{efn|One appearance in [[UEFA Champions League]], four appearances in [[UEFA Europa Conference League]]}}||0||colspan=2|—||37||0
|-
|rowspan=3|[[GNK Dinamo Zagreb|Dinamo Zagreb]]
|[[2023–24 GNK Dinamo Zagreb season|2023–24]]
|[[Croatian Football League|HNL]]
|25||1||6||1||11{{efn|Three appearances in UEFA Champions League, one appearance in [[UEFA Europa League]], seven appearances in UEFA Europa Conference League}}||0||1{{efn|Appearance in [[Croatian Football Super Cup|Croatian Super Cup]]}}||0||43||2
|-
|[[2024–25 GNK Dinamo Zagreb season|2024–25]]
|HNL
|26||5||1||0||5{{efn|name=UCL|Appearances in UEFA Champions League}}||2||colspan=2|—||32||7
|-
!colspan=2|Total
!51!!6!!7!!1!!16!!2!!1!!0!!75!!9
|-
|rowspan=3|[[Inter Milan]]
|[[2024–25 Inter Milan season|2024–25]]
|[[Serie A]]
|colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||colspan=2|—||4{{efn|Appearances in [[FIFA Club World Cup]]}}||0||4||0
|-
|[[2025–26 Inter Milan season|2025–26]]
|Serie A
|34||2||5||1||10{{efn|name=UCL}}||1||1{{efn|Appearance in [[Supercoppa Italiana]]}}||0||50||4
|-
!colspan=2|Total
!34!!2!!5!!1!!10!!1!!5!!0!!54!!4
|-
!colspan=3|Career total
!112!!8!!12!!2!!31!!3!!6!!0!!166!!13
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 2 June 2026}}<ref name="EUFoot">{{cite web |url=https://eu-football.info/_player.php?id=32830 |title=Petar Sučić |website=EU-Football.info |access-date=15 November 2024}}</ref>
{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Croatia national football team|Croatia]]
|2024||5||1
|-
|2025||8||0
|-
|2026||3||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!16!!1
|}

:''Scores and results list Croatia's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Sučić goal.''<ref name="EUFoot"/>

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Petar Sučić
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Cap
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
| style="text-align:center"|1 || 15 October 2024 || [[Kazimierz Górski National Stadium|National Stadium]], [[Warsaw]], Poland || align="center"|4 || {{fb|POL}} || style="text-align:center"|2–1 || style="text-align:center"|3–3 || [[2024–25 UEFA Nations League A]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Zrinjski Mostar'''<ref name=soccerway/>
*[[Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina|Bosnian Premier League]]: [[2022–23 Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina|2022–23]]
*[[Bosnia and Herzegovina Football Cup|Bosnian Cup]]: [[2022–23 Bosnia and Herzegovina Football Cup|2022–23]]

'''Dinamo Zagreb'''<ref name=soccerway/>
*[[Croatian Football League|HNL]]: [[2023–24 Croatian Football League|2023–24]]
*[[Croatian Football Cup|Croatian Cup]]: [[2023–24 Croatian Football Cup|2023–24]]
*[[Croatian Football Super Cup|Croatian Super Cup]]: [[2023 Croatian Football Super Cup|2023]]

'''Inter Milan'''<ref name=soccerway/>
*[[Serie A]]: [[2025–26 Serie A|2025–26]]
*[[Coppa Italia]]: [[2025–26 Coppa Italia|2025–26]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*{{UEFA}}

{{Inter Milan squad}}
{{Croatia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Sucic, Petar}}
[[Category:2003 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Livno]]
[[Category:Croatian sportspeople from Bosnia and Herzegovina]]
[[Category:Croatian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina men's footballers]]
[[Category:21st-century Bosnia and Herzegovina sportsmen]]
[[Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina men's under-21 international footballers]]
[[Category:Croatia men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:GNK Dinamo Zagreb players]]
[[Category:HŠK Zrinjski Mostar players]]
[[Category:Inter Milan players]]
[[Category:Premier League of Bosnia and Herzegovina players]]
[[Category:Croatian Football League players]]
[[Category:Serie A players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:Croatian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Italy]]
[[Category:Croatian expatriate sportspeople in Italy]]
[[Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Bosnia and Herzegovina expatriate sportspeople in Italy]]