{{short description|Iraqi footballer (born 1994)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=September 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Fahad Talib
| image = Fahad Talib.png
| caption = Talib with [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]] in 2020
| fullname = Fahad Talib Raheem<ref name=GSA>{{GSA player|fahad-talib/66494|access-date=8 October 2021}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1994|10|21|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Baghdad]], Iraq<ref name=GSA/>
| height = 1.92 m<ref name="FIFA Arab 2021">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce14/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA Arab Cup Qatar 2021: List of players: Iraq |publisher=[[FIFA]] |page=4 |date=4 December 2021 |access-date=12 December 2022}}</ref>
| position = [[Goalkeeper (association football)|Goalkeeper]]
| currentclub = 
| clubnumber = 
| years1 = 2011–2019
| clubs1 = [[Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya]]
| caps1 = 140
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2019–2020
| clubs2 = [[Al-Zawraa]]
| caps2 = 
| goals2 = 
| years3 = 2020–2023
| clubs3 = [[Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya]]
| caps3 = 
| goals3 = 
| years4 = 2023-2024
| clubs4 = [[Sanat Naft Abadan F.C.|Sanat Naft Abadan]]
| caps4 = 9
| goals4 = 0
| years5 = 2024-
| clubs5 = [[Al Talaba SC]]
| caps5 = 0
| goals5 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2015–2016
| nationalteam1 = [[Iraq national under-23 football team|Iraq U23]]
| nationalcaps1 = 20
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2017–
| nationalteam2 = [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
| nationalcaps2 = 18
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| club-update = 21 Sep 2024
| nationalteam-update = 15 July 2023
}}
'''Fahad Talib Raheem''' ({{langx|ar|فَهْد طَالِب رَحِيم}}; born 21 October 1994) is an Iraqi professional [[Association football|footballer]] who played as a [[Goalkeeper (association football)|goalkeeper]] for [[Iraq Stars League]] club [[Al Talaba]] and the [[Iraq national football team|Iraq national team]].

==Club career==
=== Youth career ===
The Goalkeeper has never played for any local team, but went straight into the [[Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya|Al Quwa Al-Jawiya]]’s youth system in his early teens and broke into the first team aged just 16 in 2011-12. Fahad followed in his father Talib Rahim and elder brother Ali’s footsteps when he joined the Blue Falcons.<ref name=OLY>{{cite web|last1=Mubarak|first1=Hassanin|title=Iraq Olympic Team Profile|url=https://ahdaaf.me/2016/08/02/iraq-olympic-team-profile/|access-date=2017-12-20|archive-date=2017-12-22|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20171222104944/https://ahdaaf.me/2016/08/02/iraq-olympic-team-profile/|url-status=usurped}}</ref> Growing up he would sit on the sidelines listening attentively to his father’s advice to Ali. Fahad was supervised by the goalkeeping coach [[Hashim Khamis]], the ex-Iraq and Al-Jawiya goalkeeper, maintaining that the man the Al-Jawiya supporters knew as Al-Tayara (“The Airplane”) had been instrumental in his development, with the Jawiya faithful granting the old nickname of his mentor to their new keeper.

=== Al Quwa Al Jawiya ===
At the start of 2014–2015 season Fahad was regarded as the club's third-choice keeper behind [[Noor Sabri]] and [[Mohannad Qasim|Mohanad Qasim]] but the club's coach at the time, [[Nadhim Shaker]], gave him his chance and he made the no.1 spot his.<ref name="OLY"/>
Fahad started his career with Iraqi giants Al Quwa al Jawiya and established himself as a first-team starter in the 2014–15 season. His Impressive performances led him to become a contender for the Olympic team squad. In the 2015/2016 season, Fahad became an instrumental part of the legendary season where [[Al Quwa Al Jawiya]] won the first-ever Iraqi FA Cup since 2003. Fahad played all matches of the 2016 AFC Cup as Al Quwa Al Jawiya became the first-ever Iraqi team to win an Asian club competition.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.fifa.com/live-scores/afccup/matches/match=al-quwa-al-jawiya-bengaluru-fc-300377346/index.html|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20170925230923/http://www.fifa.com/live-scores/afccup/matches/match=al-quwa-al-jawiya-bengaluru-fc-300377346/index.html|url-status=dead|archive-date=September 25, 2017|title=Brazil and Argentina set up South American semi-final}}</ref>

The following season, Fahad Talib was impressive once again as Al Quwa Al Jawiya won the [[Iraqi Premier League]],<ref>{{Cite web|url=http://www.nrttv.com/AR/Detail.aspx?Jimare=54836|title=Jawiya win IPL}}</ref> and retained the AFC Cup.<ref>{{cite web|title=air force club secure second successive AFC cup title|date=6 November 2017 |url=https://thefield.scroll.in/856902/air-force-club-secure-second-successive-afc-cup-title}}</ref>

Fahad Talib would once again be Jawiya's Number One as the Blue Falcons won a third straight AFC Cup in 2018, but fell short in the league as they finished 4 points behind first place Al Zawra'a. Fahad was suspended by the Asian Football Federation due to doping, while the player claims it was due to taking a "weight loss substance".<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=767265 | title=الاتحاد الآسيوي يقرر إيقاف لاعبين من القوة الجوية | date=9 July 2019 }}</ref> Fahad returned in June after he served his ban from all football activities <ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.elsport.com/news/show/485441/%D9%83%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%85 | title=الحارس العراقي فهد طالب يعود للملاعب بعد انتهاء الايقاف الآسيوي }}</ref>

=== Al Zawra'a ===

Fahad Talib moved to reigning champions Al Zawra'a ahead of the 2019–20 season, due to disagreements with Al Jawiya coach [[Ayoub Odisho]].<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=836141 | title=الزوراء يخطف حارس القوة الجوية | date=31 July 2019 }}</ref> Fahad's tenure would be short-lived as the [[2019–20 Iraqi Premier League]] was first suspended due to the [[2019–2021 Iraqi protests]], the league shortly resumed before being suspended again due to the [[COVID-19 pandemic]], before being ultimately canceled<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.almaalomah.com/2020/06/03/477638/ | archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200603135845/https://www.almaalomah.com/2020/06/03/477638/ | archive-date=2020-06-03 | title=الغاء دوري الكرة الممتاز بتوصيات من خلية الازمة &#124; وكالة المعلومة }}</ref>
 
Fahad stated that the "experience with Al Zawra'a was very important to me, and I did not regret it" <ref>{{cite web | url=https://alzawraapaper.com/content.php?id=355571&print= | title=فهد طالب: مشواري مع الصقور انتهى ولم أندم على تمثيل النوارس }}</ref>

=== Return to Al Jawiya  ===

Fahad Talib rejoined Al Quwa Al Jawiya following his stint with Al Zawra'a in June 2020, signing a 2-year contract.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.alsumaria.tv/Entertainment-News/349135/sports/%D8%B1%D8%B3%D9%85%D9%8A%D8%A7%D9%8B-%D9%81%D9%87%D8%AF-%D8%B7%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A8-%D9%8A%D8%B9%D9%88%D8%AF-%D9%84%D9%84%D8%B5%D9%82%D9%88%D8%B1-%D9%85%D9%86-%D8%AC%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%AF|title=رسمياً.. فهد طالب يعود للصقور من جديد|website=قناه السومرية العراقية}}</ref> The player won the league title in his first season back in 2020–2021, and followed it up with a cup win to secure the domestic double. Fahad also took part in the Asian Champions League, keeping two clean sheets as his side finished bottom of their group.

In 2021-2022 Fahad Talib also took part in the Asian Champions League, as his team finished third with 7 points in their group. The team finished as runners-up in the [[2021–22 Iraqi Premier League]] as well as the next season in the [[2022–23 Iraqi Premier League]] season. Fahad suffered an ACL tear in March 2022, in which he received surgery to repair it in Lebanon.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.alsumaria.tv/Entertainment-News/414438/sports/%D9%81%D9%87%D8%AF-%D8%B7%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A8-%D9%8A%D9%83%D8%B4%D9%81-%D8%AA%D9%81%D8%A7%D8%B5%D9%8A%D9%84-%D8%AA%D8%A3%D9%87%D9%8A%D9%84%D9%87-%D9%85%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A5%D8%B5%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%A9-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D9%84%D8%A8%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%86|title=فهد طالب يكشف تفاصيل تأهيله من الإصابة في لبنان|website=قناه السومرية العراقية}}</ref>

===Sanat Naft Abadan===

In July 2023, Fahad announced he reached a verbal agreement with the Iranian side [[Sanat Naft Abadan F.C.]] to represent them in the [[2023–24 Persian Gulf Pro League]],<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.ina.iq/189302--.html | title=اتفاق مبدئي يقرب فهد طالب من الدوري الايراني }}</ref> marking his first venture outside of Iraq. He made his debut on October 8 against [[Esteghlal F.C.]] He played a further 8 matches for the Persian club, keeping one clean-sheet before leaving the club by mutual consent.

=== Al Talaba ===

Following his venture in Iran, Talib returned to Baghdad, this time with Al-Talaba, to finish out the 2023-2024 season, however injury prevented him from featuring in any matches.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.alkhaleej.ae/2024-06-15/%D9%81%D9%87%D8%AF-%D8%B7%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A8-%D9%8A%D8%A4%D9%83%D8%AF-%D8%A7%D9%86%D8%AA%D9%87%D8%A7%D8%A1-%D8%B9%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%87-%D9%85%D8%B9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B7%D9%84%D8%A8%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A8%D9%8A/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9|title=فهد طالب يؤكد انتهاء عقده مع الطلبة العراقي &#124; صحيفة الخليج}}</ref> In September 2024 he renewed his contract to stay at the club for the following season.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://x.com/MUS19T/status/1820540700183974341|title=x.com}}</ref>

==International career==

===U-23 team===

The man who displaced [[Noor Sabri]] as Air Force FC's No.1 keeper has been [[Abdul-Ghani Shahad]]'s preferred first choice with the Olympic team from the first day he took charge; Talib started all but one of Iraq's ten 2016 Olympic qualifying matches.<ref name=OLY/>

Talib was the starting goalkeeper for Iraq U-23  in the [[2016 AFC U-23 Championship]] in Qatar. Iraq went on to finish 3rd and win the bronze medal. They qualified for the [[2016 Summer Olympics]].

Talib lost his place in the Olympic team to [[Mohammed Hameed Farhan|Mohammed Hameed]], Fahad was present in the Olympics as the second goalkeeper but was an unused substitute in all three matches as Iraq crashed out of the group stage.

===Senior team===

Talib was called up to the senior [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]] squad for a [[2018 FIFA World Cup]] qualifier against [[Vietnam national football team|Vietnam]] in March 2016.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.fifa.com/worldcup/matches/round=275171/match=300317482/index.html|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150623154529/http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/matches/round=275171/match=300317482/index.html|url-status=dead|archive-date=June 23, 2015|title=Iraq Vietnam|publisher=fifa.com |date=29 March 2016 |accessdate=16 July 2016}}</ref> He made his debut on June 1, 2017
<ref>{{cite tweet|user=SoccerIraq|author=Soccer Iraq|number=870341500663738368|date=1 June 2017|title=📋 | Here's the #Iraq starting XI to play Jordan in Basra this evening. Come on you Lions! 🦁 #IRQvJOR}}</ref> in a friendly match vs Jordan. He played 45 minutes and kept a clean sheet.

Fahad was part of the Iraqi squad that won the [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup]]<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://twitter.com/IRAQFA/status/1611054283486597127|title=x.com}}</ref> however he was an unused substitute in all of the tournament's matches.{{citation needed|date=September 2023}}

Fahad was part of the Iraqi squad in the [[2023 AFC Asian Cup]]. He was unused in the group stage and then suffered an injury before the round of 16 vs Jordan, where Iraq lost 3-2 and were eliminated <ref>{{cite web | url=https://royanews.tv/news/319789 | title=حارس مرمى المنتخب العراقي مهدد بالغياب عن مواجهة النشامى }}</ref>

==Honours==
'''Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya'''
* [[Iraqi Premier League]]: [[2016–17 Iraqi Premier League|2016–17]], [[2020–21 Iraqi Premier League|2020–21]]
* [[Iraq FA Cup]]: [[2015–16 Iraq FA Cup|2015–16]], [[2020–21 Iraq FA Cup|2020–21]]
* [[AFC Cup]]: [[2016 AFC Cup|2016]], [[2017 AFC Cup|2017]], [[2018 AFC Cup|2018]]

'''Iraq'''
* [[Arabian Gulf Cup]]: [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup|2023]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

== External links ==
* {{Soccerway|300068}}
* {{Goalzz|88998}}

{{Navboxes
| title = Iraq squads
| bg          = #017B3D
| fg          = white
| bordercolor = black
| list =
{{Iraq men's football squad 2016 Summer Olympics}}
{{Iraq squad 2023 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Talib, Fahad}}
[[Category:1994 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Iraqi men's footballers]]
[[Category:Iraq men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Al-Quwa Al-Jawiya players]]
[[Category:Men's association football goalkeepers]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2016 Summer Olympics]]
[[Category:Olympic footballers for Iraq]]
[[Category:Footballers from Baghdad]]
[[Category:Iraqi expatriate sportspeople in Iran]]
[[Category:2023 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]