{{Short description|Japanese footballer (born 2005)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=November 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name           = Kento Shiogai
|image          =
|full_name      = <!-- If different-->
|birth_date     = {{birth date and age|2005|3|26|df=y}}
|birth_place    = [[Tokyo]], Japan
|height         = 1.80 m
|position       = [[Forward (association football)|Forward]]
|currentclub    = [[VfL Wolfsburg]]
|clubnumber     = 7
|youthyears1    = 
|youthclubs1    = Buddy SC Koto
|youthyears2    = 2019–2021
|youthclubs2    = [[Yokohama FC]]
|youthyears3    = 2020–2022
|youthclubs3    = Kokugakuin Univ. Kugayama High School
|collegeyears1  = 2023–2024
|college1       = [[Keio University]]
|years1         = 2024
|clubs1         = [[Yokohama F. Marinos]]
|caps1          = 7
|goals1         = 1
|years2         = 2024–2026
|clubs2         = [[NEC Nijmegen|NEC]]
|caps2          = 37
|goals2         = 11
|years3         = 2026–
|clubs3         = [[VfL Wolfsburg]]
|caps3          = 12
|goals3         = 1
|nationalyears1 = 2023
|nationalteam1  = [[Japan national under-20 football team|Japan U18]]
|nationalcaps1  = 9
|nationalgoals1 = 4
|nationalyears2 = 2023–2024
|nationalteam2  = [[Japan national under-20 football team|Japan U19]]
|nationalcaps2  = 9
|nationalgoals2 = 6
|nationalyears3 = 2025–
|nationalteam3  = [[Japan national under-23 football team|Japan U23]]
|nationalcaps3  = 3
|nationalgoals3 = 0
|nationalyears4 = 2026–
|nationalteam4  = [[Japan national football team|Japan]]
|nationalcaps4  = 2
|nationalgoals4 = 0
|pcupdate       = 16 May 2026
|ntupdate       = 31 May 2026
}}

{{nihongo|'''Kento Shiogai'''|塩貝 健人|Shiogai Kento|born 26 March 2005}} is a Japanese professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[forward (association football)|forward]] for German {{German football updater|Wolfsbur}} club [[VfL Wolfsburg]] and the [[Japan national football team|Japan national team]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://keio-soccer.com/player|title=PLAYER 選手|access-date=12 July 2024|language=ja|website=keio-soccer.com}}</ref><ref name="YFMSHIOGAI">{{cite web|url=https://www.f-marinos.com/news/team/6503|title=塩貝 健人選手 2027年シーズン加入内定、JFA・Jリーグ特別指定選手認定のお知らせ|access-date=12 July 2024|date=25 January 2024|language=ja|website=www.f-marinos.com}}</ref>

==Club career==
===High school===
Shiogai played on Buddy SC Koto (U-12), and on [[Yokohama FC]] U-15s. On Yokohama FC, he barely played, and failed to win promotion to its U-18s.<ref name="KEIOBLOG23">{{cite web|url=https://keio-soccer.com/blogs/1560|title=「負けず嫌い」(塩貝健人)|access-date=12 July 2024|date=1 May 2023|language=ja|website=keio-soccer.com}}</ref><ref name="1mms"/> It was on high school football, though, that he gained prominence and national relevance. Playing for Kokugakuin University Kugayama High School, he was its captain on his third year of high school. He started to be highlighted by media during the end of 2023, when his team won the Tokyo preliminaries for the [[2023 All Japan High School Soccer Tournament]]. His performances on the preliminaries included decisive goals for Kokugakuin Kugayama, finished off with a brace against Teikyo High School in the match that qualified them to the national tournament.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://koko-soccer.com/news/5-koukousoccer/33117-2022cstokyo-kugayama-shiogai21|title=全国に自分の名を知らしめる！國學院久我山FW塩貝健人「"東京にもエグい奴がいるぞ"、と」|access-date=12 July 2024|date=28 October 2022|language=ja|website=koko-soccer.com}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://koko-soccer.com/news/5-koukousoccer/33427-2022cstokyo1105kugayama01|title=「彼は高校年代では注目に値するCF」絶対的エース塩貝健人が國學院久我山を躍進に導く！|access-date=12 July 2024|date=8 November 2022|language=ja|website=koko-soccer.com}}</ref> He stated that he wanted to win the national tournament, and being its top scorer, prior to the start of the tournament.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://koko-soccer.com/news/5-koukousoccer/33688-2022csdraw-kugayama01|title=國學院久我山のエース塩貝健人が狙うは優勝と得点王の両獲り！「強い高校とたくさん対戦できそうなので楽しみ」|access-date=12 July 2024|date=22 November 2022|language=ja|website=koko-soccer.com}}</ref>

Participating for the first and last time on the national tournament on 2023, the then-third grader scored a goal on its first match, against Kindai Wakayama, qualifying them to the third round.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.jfa.jp/match/alljapan_highschool_2022/match_page/m24.html|title=近大和歌山 vs 國學院久我山|access-date=12 July 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref> In a difficult match against the eventual champions Okayama Gakugeikan, he failed to score on the 0–0 draw and missed a penalty in the 5–3 shoot-out loss.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.jfa.jp/match/alljapan_highschool_2022/match_report/m36.pdf|title=岡山学芸館 vs 國學院久我山|access-date=12 July 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref>

Despite the loss, Shiogai was noted as one of the nation's best prospects, and selected as one of the 36 best players of the tournament. As expected, he was selected for the Japan High School squad of the year. Representing them, he played the "FUJIFILM Super Cup Next Generation Match" against the U-18s of [[Yokohama F. Marinos]], scoring a brace, and participated in both the Denso Cup Challenge and the U-19 Youth Soccer Tournament in [[Düsseldorf]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://koko-soccer.com/news/5-koukousoccer/34881-2023nextgenerationmatch-shiogai|title=千金の同点弾も不満…日本高校サッカー選抜FW塩貝健人「1回しか決められなかったので、そこは反省」|access-date=12 July 2024|date=12 February 2023|language=ja|website=koko-soccer.com}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.soccerdigestweb.com/news/detail/id=127469|title=三笘薫のように――慶應進学の塩貝健人が描くビジョン。文武両道を続け、選手としても、大学生としても土台を固めて次のステージに挑む|access-date=12 July 2024|date=3 March 2023|language=ja|website=soccerdigestweb.com}}</ref><ref name="1mms">{{cite web|url=https://1mm-soccer.com/university/1399/|title=堂々の宣言「大学在学中にJ1得点王」（塩貝健人／慶応義塾大→横浜FM）｜J内定組・未来を担う原石たち|access-date=12 July 2024|date=18 March 2023|language=ja|website=1mm-soccer.com}}</ref>

===University and Yokohama F. Marinos===
Shiogai joined [[Keio University]] on 2023, studying on the Department of Political Science, Faculty of Law, and playing for its football team. He was gifted the number 10 on his first-year, before changing to the number 9 on his second.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://web.gekisaka.jp/news/university/detail/?406242-406242-fl|title=[関東2部]早慶戦で1G2Aの圧巻パフォ、横浜FM内定慶大FW塩貝健人が今季10番ではなく9番を選んだ理由|access-date=12 July 2024|date=28 April 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref><ref name=KEIOBLOG23/> Scoring 15 goals in his first league season, Shiogai helped Keio to win promotion for the 2nd division of the Kanto University League.<ref name="1mms"/>

On 25 January 2024, he was announced by [[Yokohama F. Marinos]] as their first signing of the 2027 season, and was immediately registered in the [[J.League designated special players|specially-designated player program]], which allowed him to play for Marinos in J.League-approved competitions.<ref name="YFMSHIOGAI"/><ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.jfa.jp/news/00033610/|title=2024年JFA・Ｊリーグ特別指定選手に塩貝健人選手（慶應義塾大）を認定|access-date=12 July 2024|date=25 January 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref> On 10 April 2024, he made his debut for Marinos against [[Gamba Osaka]] in a 2–0 win, in which he was subbed on at the 67th minute.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://news.yahoo.co.jp/articles/9792149aff956ac43cd0fcfe10056614b476ea82|title=「ちょっと熱くなり過ぎた」横浜F・マリノス塩貝健人がデビュー戦ファーストプレーで残した爪痕「見ている人を驚かせたい」|access-date=12 July 2024|date=10 April 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref> He started a match for Marinos in their following match, played against [[Shonan Bellmare]]. Making a lasting impression, he played 57 minutes, scoring his first professional goal on the 21st.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.asahi.com/articles/ASS4F3J20S4FUTQP00YM.html|title=塩貝健人が過ごした激動の1週間 慶大で3得点、マリノスで初ゴール|access-date=12 July 2024|date=13 April 2024|language=ja|website=asahi-com}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.goal.com/jp/%E3%83%8B%E3%83%A5%E3%83%BC%E3%82%B9/shiogai-goal/bltfe386ce84cbe6e49|title=現役慶大生・塩貝健人が初スタメンで初ゴール！横浜FMに先制点もたらす|access-date=12 July 2024|date=13 April 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref>

===NEC===
On 28 August 2024, Shiogai signed a four-year contract with [[NEC Nijmegen|NEC]] in the Netherlands, joining his compatriots [[Koki Ogawa (footballer)|Koki Ogawa]] and [[Kodai Sano (footballer)|Kodai Sano]] at the club.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=NEC|url=https://www.nec-nijmegen.nl/nieuws/nieuws/n.e.c.-haalt-japanner-kento-shiogai-naar-nijmegen.htm|title=N.E.C. haalt Japanner Kento Shiogai naar Nijmegen|trans-title=NEC brings Japanese Kento Shiogai to Nijmegen|date=28 August 2024|access-date=28 August 2024|language=nl}}</ref>

===Wolfsburg===
On 20 January 2026, Shiogai joined [[Bundesliga]] side [[VfL Wolfsburg]] on a four-and-a-half-year contract.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=VfL Wolfsburg|url=https://www.vfl-wolfsburg.de/en/newsdetails/news-detail/detail/news/japanese-new-signing|title=Japanese New Signing|date=20 January 2026|access-date=20 January 2026}}</ref>

==International career==
Shiogai represented [[Japan national under-20 football team|Japan U-18s]] on their 2023 activities, which happened in the second semester. He was featured on all three call-ups, and scored four goals in nine matches across the 2023 SBS Cup, friendlies played in November and the Ibaraki Next Generation Cup.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://jfa.jp/national_team/u18_2023/sbscup_2023/match_page/m5.html|title=U-18日本代表 vs U-20関東大学選抜|access-date=12 July 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://jfa.jp/national_team/u18_2023/20231122/match_page/m2.html|title=イングランド vs 日本|access-date=12 July 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.jfa.jp/national_team/u18_2023/NextGenerationCup_2023/match_page/m1.html|title=U-20関東大学選抜 vs U-18日本代表|access-date=12 July 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref><ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.jfa.jp/national_team/u18_2023/NextGenerationCup_2023/match_page/m5.html|title=U-18日本代表 vs U-18ウズベキスタン代表|access-date=12 July 2024|language=ja|website=jfa.jp}}</ref>

He was called up for the U-19 for three friendlies in March 2024, scoring a goal in its first. Continuing to represent the 2005 generation on the Japan youth set-ups with consecutive call-ups, he was called up for the [[2024 Maurice Revello Tournament]]. He scored five goals in five matches, including a hat-trick against [[Italy national under-21 football team|Italy]], helping Japan to place fifth out of 12 teams, and winning the tournament's top scorer award.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.tournoimauricerevello.com/en/festival/archives/palmares.php?annee=2024|title=50ND MAURICE REVELLO TOURNAMENT AWARDS|access-date=12 July 2024|language=en|website=www.tournoimauricerevello.com}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 25 May 2026}}

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup
!colspan="2"|League cup
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|[[Yokohama F. Marinos]]
|[[2024 J1 League|2024]]
|[[J1 League]]
|7||1||colspan="2"|–||0||0||colspan="2"|–||7||1
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[NEC Nijmegen]]
|[[2024–25 NEC Nijmegen season|2024–25]]
|[[Eredivisie]]
|25||4||2||1||colspan="2"|–||1{{efn|Appearance in Eredivisie European play-offs}}||0||28||5
|-
|[[2025–26 Eredivisie|2025–26]]
|Eredivisie
|12||7||2||2||colspan="2"|–||colspan="2"|–||14||9
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!37!!11!!4!!3!!colspan="2"|–!!1!!0!!42!!14
|-
|[[VfL Wolfsburg]]
|[[2025–26 VfL Wolfsburg season|2025–26]]
|[[Bundesliga]]
|12||1||0||0||colspan="2"|–||1{{efn|Appearance in [[Promotion to the Bundesliga|Bundesliga promotion play-offs]]}}||0||13||1
|-
!colspan="3"|Total
!56!!13!!4!!3!!0!!0!!2!!0!!62!!16
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 31 May 2026}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="1"|[[Japan national football team|Japan]]
|2026||2||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!2!!0
|}

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* {{Soccerway|kento-shiogai/910330}}

{{VfL Wolfsburg squad}}
{{Japan squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Shiogai, Kento}}
[[Category:2005 births]]
[[Category:Football people from Tokyo]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:21st-century Japanese sportsmen]]
[[Category:Keio University alumni]]
[[Category:Men's association football forwards]]
[[Category:Japanese men's footballers]]
[[Category:Japan men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Yokohama F. Marinos players]]
[[Category:NEC Nijmegen players]]
[[Category:VfL Wolfsburg players]]
[[Category:J1 League players]]
[[Category:Eredivisie players]]
[[Category:Japanese expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Japanese expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Germany]]
[[Category:Japanese expatriate sportspeople in Germany]]
[[Category:Japan men's international footballers]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]