{{Short description|South African soccer player}}
{{BLP sources|date=September 2016}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2019}}
{{Use South African English|date=May 2019}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Aubrey Modiba
| image = Aubrey Modiba (cropped).jpg
| fullname = Aubrey Maphosa Modiba<ref name="FIFA">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce281/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA World Cup 2026: Squad List |publisher=[[FIFA]] |date=2 June 2026 |access-date=2 June 2026}}</ref>
| height = 1.71 m<ref name="FIFA"/>
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|df=yes|1995|07|22}}
| birth_place = [[Polokwane]], [[South Africa]]
| currentclub = [[Mamelodi Sundowns F.C.|Mamelodi Sundowns]]
| clubnumber = 6
| position = left back
| youthyears1 = 
| youthclubs1 = School of Excellence
| youthyears2 = 
| youthclubs2 = [[Mpumalanga Black Aces F.C.|Mpumalanga Black Aces]]
| years1 = 2014–2016
| clubs1 = [[Mpumalanga Black Aces F.C.|Mpumalanga Black Aces]]
| caps1 = 26
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2016
| clubs2 = [[Cape Town City F.C. (2016)|Cape Town City]]
| caps2 = 1
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2016–2020
| clubs3 = [[SuperSport United F.C.|SuperSport United]]
| caps3 = 98
| goals3 = 19
| years4 = 2020–
| clubs4 = [[Mamelodi Sundowns F.C.|Mamelodi Sundowns]]
| caps4 = 108
| goals4 = 6
| nationalyears1 = 2016
| nationalteam1 = [[South Africa national soccer team|South Africa Olympic]]
| nationalcaps1 = 14
| nationalgoals1 = 4
| nationalyears2 = 2016–
| nationalteam2 = [[South Africa national soccer team|South Africa]]
| nationalcaps2 = 45
| nationalgoals2 = 3
| pcupdate = 3 January 2026
| ntupdate = 29 December 2025
}}

'''Aubrey Maphosa Modiba''' (born 22 July 1995) is a South African professional [[Association football|soccer]] player who plays as a left-midfielder and left-back for [[Mamelodi Sundowns F.C.|Mamelodi Sundowns]] in the [[Premier Soccer League]] and [[South Africa national football team|South Africa national team]].

==Club career==
Modiba began his professional soccer career at 19 years old representing [[Mpumalanga Black Aces F.C.|Mpumalanga Black Aces]] in the 2014–15 PSL season. He managed only 1 appearance in his opening season, but grew to strength quickly earning himself 25 appearances in only his second season. In 2016, he was signed by Cape Town City after the relocation of Aces.

===Cape Town City===
During the summer of 2016, Mpumalanga Black Aces were dissolved. He initially chose to continue with [[Cape Town City F.C. (2016)|Cape Town City]], the club's successor. He made only two appearances on 23 August in the [[South African Premiership]] against [[Polokwane City F.C.|Polokwane City]], a 2–0 victory, and three days later in the MTN 8 against [[Kaizer Chiefs F.C.|Kaizer Chiefs]], a 1–0 win.

===SuperSport United===
On 31 August 2016, he joined [[SuperSport United F.C.|SuperSport United]]. He made his debut on 14 September against Chippa United in a 0–0 draw and scored his first professional goal on 4 April 2017 in the [[Nedbank Cup]] against KwaDukuza United, a 2–0 victory. His first season at the club was promising, as he won the Nedbank Cup and reached the final of the Telkom Knockout.

He became a regular starter during the [[2017–18 South African Premiership|2017–18 season]], scoring eight league goals. He also won the MTN 8 that season. In the following campaign, he finished as runner-up in the competition before winning it again in 2019.

=== Mamelodi Sundowns ===
In August 2020, he joined Malelodi Sundowns, on a five-year deal.<ref>{{Cite web |author1=FourFourTwo Staff |date=2020-10-07 |title=All Mamelodi Sundowns' new signings for 2020/21 season |url=https://www.fourfourtwo.com/features/all-mamelodi-sundowns-new-signings-for-2020-21-season |access-date=2025-12-29 |website=FourFourTwo |language=en}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |date=2020-08-14 |title=United decide to cash in on Modiba |url=https://www.dailydispatch.co.za/sport/2020-08-14-united-decide-to-cash-in-on-modiba/ |access-date=2025-12-29 |website=Daily Dispatch |language=en}}</ref>

==International career==
Modiba currently plays for the [[South Africa national under-23 soccer team|South Africa national U23 team]] as a [[midfielder]]. He has earned 6 caps at the U23 level and 17 with the U20 team.

In 2016, Modiba was selected to represent South Africa at the [[2016 Summer Olympics]] in [[Rio de Janeiro]]. He featured in every one of the team's three games, starting in midfield for two out of three.<ref>{{cite news |last=Nekhavhambe |first=Maano |date=22 July 2016 |title=Modiba chuffed with Olympic call-up |url=https://www.sport24.co.za/Soccer/PSL/modiba-chuffed-with-olympic-call-up-20160722 |accessdate=12 May 2019 |publisher=Sport24}}</ref>

In December 2023, he was included in the list of twenty-seven South African players selected by [[Hugo Broos]] to compete in the [[2023 Africa Cup of Nations]].

On 1 December 2025, Modiba was called up to the South Africa squad for the [[2025 Africa Cup of Nations]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.cafonline.com/afcon2025/news/totalenergies-afcon-morocco-2025-fever-rises-as-broos-become-first-coach-to-unveil-final-squad/|title=TotalEnergies AFCON Morocco 2025 fever rises as Broos become first coach to unveil final squad|publisher=[[Confederation of African Football]]|date=1 December 2025|access-date=12 December 2025}}</ref> During the [[2025 Africa Cup of Nations]], where he scored an [[own goal]] in the last group stage match against [[Zimbabwe]]. South Africa did however manage to proceed to the round of 16.<ref>{{Cite web |title=VAR finally on Bafana Bafana's side as dramatic AFCON win over Zimbabwe seals last-16 spot |url=https://themercury.co.za/sport/soccer/bafana/2025-12-29-var-finally-on-bafana-bafanas-side-as-dramatic-afcon-win-over-zimbabwe-seals-last-16-spot/ |last=Baleka |first=Mihlali |date=2025-12-29 |access-date=2025-12-29}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===International===
:''As of match played on 29 December 2025.''<ref name="NFT">{{cite web|url=https://www.national-football-teams.com/player/64766/Aubrey_Modiba.html|title=Modiba, Aubrey|website=national-football-teams.com|publisher=National Football Teams|accessdate=11 June 2018}}</ref>
{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center;"
|-
! National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
| rowspan="7" |[[South Africa national football team|South Africa]]
|2016||4||0
|-
|2018||7||2
|-
|2021||1||0
|-
|2022||3||1
|-
|2023||7||0
|-
|2024||17||0
|-
|2025||6||0
|-
! colspan="2" |Total!!45!!3
|}
'''International goals'''
:''As of match played on 24 September 2022. South Africa score listed first, score column indicates score after each Modiba goal.''<ref name="NFT"/>
{| class="wikitable"
|-
! # !! Date !! Venue !! Opponent !! Score !! Result !! Competition
|-
| 1. || 5 June 2018 || [[Peter Mokaba Stadium]], [[Polokwane]], South Africa || {{fb|NAM}} || align=center |'''1'''–0 || align=center | 4–1 || rowspan=2 | [[2018 COSAFA Cup]]
|-
| 2. || 8 June 2018 || Peter Mokaba Stadium, Polokwane, South Africa || {{fb|BOT}} || align=center | '''2'''–0 || align=center | 3–0
|-
| 3. || 24 September 2022 || [[FNB Stadium]], [[Soweto]], South Africa || {{fb|SLE}} || align=center|'''4'''–0 || align=center| 4–0 || [[2022 COSAFA Cup]]
|}

== Honours ==
'''South Africa'''

* [[Africa Cup of Nations]] third place: [[2023 Africa Cup of Nations|2023]]<ref>{{Cite web |last=Edwards |first=Piers |date=10 February 2024 |title=South Africa 0–0 DR Congo |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/68190249 |url-status=live |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20240212015031/https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/68190249 |archive-date=12 February 2024 |access-date=12 February 2024 |website=BBC Sport |publisher=}}</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
*{{soccerway}}
*{{NFT player}}

{{Mamelodi Sundowns F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = South Africa squads
| bg        = #FFB81C
| fg        = #007749
| bordercolor = #007749
| list =
{{South Africa men's football squad 2016 Summer Olympics}}
{{South Africa squad 2023 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{South Africa squad 2025 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{South Africa squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Modiba, Aubrey}}
[[Category:1995 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Soccer players from Polokwane]]
[[Category:South African men's soccer players]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Men's association football defenders]]
[[Category:South African Premier Division players]]
[[Category:Mpumalanga Black Aces F.C. players]]
[[Category:Cape Town City F.C. (2016) players]]
[[Category:SuperSport United F.C. players]]
[[Category:Mamelodi Sundowns F.C. players]]
[[Category:South Africa men's international soccer players]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2016 Summer Olympics]]
[[Category:Olympic soccer players for South Africa]]
[[Category:2023 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:2025 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:21st-century South African sportsmen]]
[[Category:CAF Champions League–winning players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]