{{short description|Colombian footballer (born 1992)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=August 2023}}
{{family name hatnote|Mojica|Palacio|lang=Spanish}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Johan Mojica
|image = FWC 2018 - Round of 16 - COL v ENG - Photo 102 (cropped) 2.jpg
|caption = Mojica with [[Colombia national football team|Colombia]] at the [[2018 FIFA World Cup]]
|full_name = Johan Andrés Mojica Palacio<ref name=FIFA>{{cite web |url=https://www.fifadata.com/documents/FWC/2018/pdf/FWC_2018_SQUADLISTS.PDF |title=FIFA World Cup Russia 2018: List of Players: Colombia |publisher=FIFA |page=5 |date=15 July 2018 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190611000407/https://www.fifadata.com/documents/FWC/2018/pdf/FWC_2018_SQUADLISTS.PDF |archive-date=11 June 2019}}</ref>
|birth_date = {{birth date and age|1992|8|21|df=y}}
|birth_place = [[Cali]], Colombia
|height = 1.85 m<ref name=FIFA />
|position = [[Left-back]]
|currentclub = [[RCD Mallorca|Mallorca]]
|clubnumber = 22
|youthyears1 = 
|youthclubs1 = [[Academia F.C.|Academia]]
|years1 = 2011–2012
|clubs1 = [[Academia F.C.|Academia]]
|caps1 = 33
|goals1 = 0
|years2 = 2012–2014
|clubs2 = [[Llaneros F.C.|Llaneros]]
|caps2 = 17
|goals2 = 0
|years3 = 2013
|clubs3 = → [[Deportivo Cali]] (loan)
|caps3 = 14
|goals3 = 0
|years4 = 2013–2014
|clubs4 = → [[Rayo Vallecano]] (loan)
|caps4 = 12
|goals4 = 0
|years5 = 2014–2018
|clubs5 = [[Rayo Vallecano]]
|caps5 = 6
|goals5 = 0
|years6 = 2014–2016
|clubs6 = → [[Real Valladolid|Valladolid]] (loan)
|caps6 = 64
|goals6 = 9
|years7 = 2017–2018
|clubs7 = → [[Girona FC|Girona]] (loan)
|caps7 = 40
|goals7 = 0
|years8 = 2018–2021
|clubs8 = [[Girona FC|Girona]]
|caps8 = 34
|goals8 = 0
|years9 = 2020–2021
|clubs9 = → [[Atalanta B.C.|Atalanta]] (loan)
|caps9 = 11
|goals9 = 0
|years10 = 2021
|clubs10 = → [[Elche CF|Elche]] (loan)
|caps10 = 17
|goals10 = 0
|years11 = 2021–2022
|clubs11 = [[Elche CF|Elche]]
|caps11 = 36
|goals11 = 2
|years12 = 2022–2024
|clubs12 = [[Villarreal CF|Villarreal]]
|caps12 = 17
|goals12 = 0
|years13 = 2023–2024
|clubs13 = → [[CA Osasuna|Osasuna]] (loan)
|caps13 = 30
|goals13 = 0
|years14 = 2024–
|clubs14 = [[RCD Mallorca|Mallorca]]
|caps14 = 71
|goals14 = 1
|nationalyears1 = 2015–
|nationalteam1 = [[Colombia national football team|Colombia]]
|nationalcaps1 = 43
|nationalgoals1 = 1
|pcupdate = 17 May 2026
|ntupdate = 29 March 2026
|medaltemplates = {{MedalSport|Men's [[Association football|football]]}}
{{MedalCountry|{{fb|COL}}}}
{{Medal|Competition|[[Copa América]]}}
{{Medal|RU|[[2024 Copa América|2024 United States]]|}}
}}

'''Johan Andrés Mojica Palacio''' (born 21 August 1992) is a Colombian professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[left-back]] for [[La Liga]] club [[RCD Mallorca|Mallorca]] and the [[Colombia national football team|Colombia national team]].

Mojica began his career in Colombia with second-division side [[Academia F.C.|Academia]], before joining [[Llaneros F.C.|Llaneros]] in 2012. He later had loan spells at [[Deportivo Cali]] and [[Rayo Vallecano]], before being permanently signed by Rayo in 2014. That same year, he was loaned to [[Real Valladolid|Valladolid]], where he was included in the [[2014–15 Segunda División|2014–15 Segunda División Team of the Year]]. In 2017, he joined [[Girona FC|Girona]] (initially on loan, later permanent), helping the club earn promotion to La Liga. He subsequently spent a short loan spell at [[Atalanta BC|Atalanta]] in [[Serie A]], before joining [[Elche CF|Elche]]—first on loan and later on a three-year deal. In 2022, Mojica signed with [[Villarreal CF|Villarreal]], and in July 2024 moved to Mallorca.

Mojica made his senior debut for Colombia in March 2015. He represented the side at the [[2018 FIFA World Cup]] in Russia, and was part of the squad that reached the final of the [[2024 Copa América]], where Colombia finished runners-up to [[Argentina national football team|Argentina]].

== Club career ==
=== Academia F.C. ===
Born in [[Cali]], Mojica began his professional career with [[Academia F.C.]] in Bogotá, competing in the [[Categoría Primera B]], Colombia’s second division. He made his first-team debut on 25 June 2011 in a 1–1 home draw against [[Expreso Rojo]], where he impressed with his pace and overlapping runs from the left flank.<ref name="archive.today">https://archive.today/20130719032114/http://www.cdacademiafc.com/paginas/principal/noticias/academia-expreso-ficha.htm</ref> During his early period with Academia, Mojica was primarily deployed as an attacking full-back and occasionally further up the pitch, frequently creating opportunities through his dribbling and crosses from deep.<ref name="archive.today"/>

=== Llaneros F.C. ===
In 2012, Mojica transferred to [[Llaneros F.C.]], a recently founded second-division club based in Villavicencio. He quickly became one of their standout players, contributing through defensive recovery and offensive overlaps on the left side.<ref name="futbolred.com">https://www.futbolred.com/futbol-colombiano/segunda-division/llaneros-cumple-su-sueno-de-estar-en-la-b/11097094</ref> His performances in the [[Categoría Primera B]] earned attention from several [[Categoría Primera A]] clubs, as he displayed both pace and stamina to cover the entire flank.<ref name="futbolred.com"/>

=== Deportivo Cali ===
In January 2013, Mojica signed for [[Deportivo Cali]], joining the first-team setup under manager [[Leonel Álvarez (footballer, born 1965)|Leonel Álvarez]].<ref name="elpais.com.co">http://www.elpais.com.co/elpais/deportes/noticias/johan-mojica-cuota-juventud-defensa-deportivo-cali</ref> He made his [[Categoría Primera A]] debut on 30 March 2013 in a 3–0 away win over [[Itagüí S.A.|Itagüí]], contributing to attacking transitions while maintaining defensive discipline on the left flank.<ref>https://www.elcolombiano.com/deportes/futbol/itagui-0-3-deportivo-cali-leonel-alvarez-doblego-a-su-legado-GFEC_243727</ref> Mojica’s performances at Cali were noted for his acceleration, ability to beat markers in one-on-one duels, and endurance—attributes that soon attracted the attention of European scouts.<ref name="elpais.com.co"/>

By mid-2013, Mojica’s form in the Colombian top flight led to an opportunity to move abroad. On 5 July 2013, he joined [[Rayo Vallecano]] in Spain’s [[La Liga]] on loan, marking the beginning of his European career.<ref>https://www.marca.com/2013/07/05/futbol/equipos/rayo/1373042457.html</ref>

=== Rayo Vallecano ===
Mojica moved from Colombia to Spanish side [[Rayo Vallecano]] in July 2013 on a season-long loan. He made his [[La Liga]] debut on 15 September 2013, coming on as a substitute in a 5–0 away defeat to [[Málaga CF|Málaga]].<ref>https://www.bdfutbol.com/p/p.php?id=27438</ref> After the campaign, Rayo signed him permanently in July 2014 but immediately loaned him to second-division side [[Real Valladolid]] for more playing time.<ref name="atalanta.it">https://atalanta.it/news/welcome-mojica</ref>

=== Real Valladolid (loan) ===
At [[Real Valladolid]], Mojica was converted from left-back to a more attacking left winger. He quickly made an impact with his offensive contributions. On 21 December 2014, he scored two goals in a 7–0 home win over [[FC Barcelona Atlètic|Barcelona B]] in the [[Segunda División]].<ref>https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/403255</ref> Mojica finished the 2014–15 season with seven goals and several assists, earning a place in the league’s Team of the Season.<ref name="atalanta.it"/> His loan was extended for 2015–16, during which he provided multiple assists and scored twice.<ref name="atalanta.it"/> In total, Mojica recorded nine goals across two seasons at Valladolid and was one of the team’s standout players before returning to Rayo in 2016.

=== Girona ===
In January 2017, Mojica joined [[Girona FC]] on loan from Rayo. He immediately helped the Catalan club secure promotion to [[La Liga]] for the first time at the end of the 2016–17 season.<ref name="atalanta.it"/> His loan was renewed for the 2017–18 campaign, where Mojica became a regular in Girona’s debut top-flight season. He made 30 La Liga appearances that year and contributed several assists as Girona achieved a mid-table finish. In June 2018, Girona purchased Mojica outright on a four-year contract following his successful loan spell. However, his progress was stalled by a serious knee injury suffered in August 2018, which sidelined him for most of the 2018–19 season. He managed only one appearance that year as Girona were eventually relegated from La Liga.

=== Atalanta (loan) ===
On 22 September 2020, after Girona remained in Segunda División, Mojica moved to [[Atalanta B.C.|Atalanta]] in Italy on a season-long loan with an option to buy.<ref name="villarrealusa.com">https://www.villarrealusa.com/2022/9/2/23334030/villarreal-complete-deadline-day-signing</ref> He made his debut in [[Serie A]] shortly after joining. Mojica went on to appear 13 times in total for Atalanta (including 11 league matches and two in the [[UEFA Champions League]]), but he did not register any goals. In January 2021, Atalanta terminated the loan early due to limited playing opportunities, and Mojica returned to Spain.

=== Elche ===
On 15 January 2021, Mojica signed with [[Elche CF]] on loan for the remainder of the 2020–21 season.<ref>https://www.elchecf.es/noticia/johan-mojica-nuevo-fichaje-del-elche-cf</ref> He became a starter at left-back as Elche fought off relegation. In August 2021, Elche secured Mojica on a permanent three-year deal. The 2021–22 season proved to be Mojica’s most impactful in La Liga. He scored his first top-flight goal on 22 September 2021, volleying home an equalizer in a 4–1 away match against [[Villarreal CF|Villarreal]].<ref>https://laligaanalysis.com/stats-pack-villarreal-beat-elche-in-nailbiter</ref> Later in the campaign, on 16 April 2022, Mojica opened the scoring with a left-footed strike in a 3–0 victory over [[RCD Mallorca|Mallorca]], celebrating with a special dedication as he and his wife were expecting a child.<ref>https://www.infobae.com/en/2022/04/16/video-of-johan-mojicas-great-goal-in-the-match-between-elche-and-mallorca-in-spanish-football/</ref> In total, he scored two goals and provided five assists during 2021–22, playing a key role as Elche comfortably avoided the drop. His consistent performances and attacking support from defense made him one of Elche’s standout players.

=== Villarreal ===
On 1 September 2022, Mojica transferred to [[Villarreal CF]] on a four-year contract, with the club reportedly paying a €5.5 million fee for his services.<ref name="villarrealusa.com"/> He made an immediate impact in his debut for Villarreal on 8 September 2022. Starting at left-back in a [[UEFA Europa Conference League]] group stage match, Mojica played the full 90 minutes and provided an assist for [[Samuel Chukwueze]]’s goal in a 4–3 win over [[Lech Poznań]].<ref>https://www.foxsports.com/soccer/europa-conference-league-villarreal-vs-lech-poznan-sep-08-2022-game-boxscore-109816</ref> Despite that promising start, Mojica found first-team chances limited behind starter [[Alfonso Pedraza]]. He made 17 league appearances (no goals) for Villarreal in the 2022–23 season.

In July 2023, Villarreal loaned Mojica out to [[CA Osasuna]] for the 2023–24 campaign.<ref>https://villarrealcf.es/en/mojica-cedido-al-ca-osasuna/</ref> With Osasuna, Mojica was a regular in the lineup, appearing in 30 La Liga matches throughout the season. Although he did not score during his stint in Pamplona, he contributed with solid defensive displays and helped Osasuna to a mid-table finish.

=== RCD Mallorca ===
On 23 July 2024, Mojica signed a three-year contract with [[RCD Mallorca]], returning to La Liga on a permanent move.<ref>https://www.rcdmallorca.es/es/content/news/news/johan-mojica-nuevo-jugador-del-rcd-mallorca</ref> He quickly established himself as Mallorca’s first-choice left-back. In a memorable performance on 23 November 2024, Mojica had a hand in all three points for Mallorca in a 3–2 away win at [[UD Las Palmas|Las Palmas]]. He set up a goal with a pinpoint cross to assist teammate [[Robert Navarro (footballer)|Robert Navarro]], and in the 91st minute he scored a dramatic game-winning goal with a powerful strike from an indirect free-kick inside the box.<ref>https://www.rcdmallorca.es/en/news/tres-puntos-de-oro-tras-un-final-epico-en-gran-canaria</ref> This late winner – his first goal for Mallorca – secured a thrilling victory and highlighted Mojica’s ability to influence the attack. As of 2025, Mojica remains an important contributor for Mallorca, providing experienced defending on the flank as well as occasional goals and assists from his left-back position.

==International career==
On 22 March 2015, Mojica was called up by [[Colombia national football team|Colombia national team]] for the [[Exhibition match|friendlies]] against [[Bahrain national football team|Bahrain]] and [[Kuwait national football team|Kuwait]].<ref>[http://www.elpais.com.co/elpais/deportes/noticias/johan-mojica-estaba-esperando-llamado "Estaba esperando el llamado a la selección Colombia": Johan Mojica ("I was waiting for the call of the Colombia national team": Johan Mojica)] {{Webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150924041020/http://www.elpais.com.co/elpais/deportes/noticias/johan-mojica-estaba-esperando-llamado |date=24 September 2015 }}; [[El País (Cali)|El País]], 22 March 2015 {{in lang|es}}</ref> He made his international debut four days later, coming on as a second half substitute for [[Juan Fernando Quintero]] and scoring the fifth in a 6–0 win.<ref name="goleó">[http://www.libero.pe/futbol-internacional/2015-03-25-colombia-vs-bahrein-partido-amistoso-internacional Colombia goleó 6–0 a Bahrein con doblete de Radamel Falcao, en partido amistoso (Colombia thrashed Bahrein by 6–0 with a Radamel Falcao double, in a friendly match)]. {{webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150328194409/http://www.libero.pe/futbol-internacional/2015-03-25-colombia-vs-bahrein-partido-amistoso-internacional |date=28 March 2015 }}. Libero. 26 March 2015 {{in lang|es}}.</ref>

He was included in Colombia's squad for the [[2018 FIFA World Cup]].<ref>
{{cite web| url = http://www.goal.com/en-gb/news/falcao-and-james-join-injured-duo-in-colombias-world-cup/wnbuppcvblfj1humzah4jkfbq| url-status = dead| archive-url = https://web.archive.org/web/20180612143149/http://www.goal.com/en-gb/news/falcao-and-james-join-injured-duo-in-colombias-world-cup/wnbuppcvblfj1humzah4jkfbq| archive-date = 12 June 2018| title = Radamel Falcao and James Rodriguez named in Colombia's World Cup squad {{!}} Goal.com}}</ref> He started in all of Colombia's matches, including the round of 16 match against [[England national football team|England]], where Colombia lost 3–4 on penalties following a 1–1 draw.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/498147 | title=Colombia vs. England – Football Match Summary – July 3, 2018 – ESPN }}</ref>

On 14 June 2024, Mojica was included into the [[Colombia national football team|squad]] for the [[2024 Copa América]].<ref>{{Cite web |date=14 June 2024 |title=Convocatoria de la Selección Masculina de Mayores para la CONMEBOL Copa América USA 2024 |url=https://www.fcf.com.co/2024/06/14/convocatoria-de-la-seleccion-masculina-de-mayores-para-la-conmebol-copa-america-usa-2024/ |access-date=2024-10-20 |website=Federación Colombiana de Futbol |language=es}}</ref> He was a starter in six of seven Colombia's matches, just replaced with [[Deiver Machado]] into third group phase match against [[Brazil national football team|Brazil]], but entering at second half and maintaining his starter status till the [[2024 Copa América final|final]].

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 17 May 2026}}<ref>{{Soccerway|johan-andres-mojica-palacio/173784}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup
!colspan="2"|Continental
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Academia F.C.|Academia]]
|[[2011 Categoría Primera B season|2011]]
|[[Categoría Primera B|Primera B]]
|19||0||4||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||23||0
|-
|[[2012 Categoría Primera B season|2012]]
|Primera B
|14||0||10||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||24||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!33!!0!!14!!0!!0!!0!!0!!0!!47!!0
|-
|[[Llaneros F.C.|Llaneros]]
|[[2012 Categoría Primera B season|2012]]
|Primera B
|17||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||17||0
|-
|[[Deportivo Cali]] (loan)
|[[2013 Categoría Primera A season|2013]]
|[[Categoría Primera A|Primera A]]
|14||0||6||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||20||0
|-
|[[Rayo Vallecano]] (loan)
|[[2013–14 Rayo Vallecano season|2013–14]]
|[[La Liga]]
|12||0||3||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||15||0
|-
|rowspan="2"|Rayo Vallecano
|[[2016–17 Rayo Vallecano season|2016–17]]
|[[Segunda División]]
|6||0||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||7||0
|-
!colspan="2"|{{nowrap|Rayo Vallecano total}}
!18!!0!!4!!0!!0!!0!!0!!0!!22!!0
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Real Valladolid|Valladolid]] (loan)
|[[2014–15 Segunda División|2014–15]]
|Segunda División
|33||7||4||0||colspan="2"|—||2{{efn|name=PRO|Appearances in [[La Liga play-offs]]}}||0||39||7
|-
|[[2015–16 Segunda División|2015–16]]
|Segunda División
|31||2||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||31||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!64!!9!!4!!0!!0!!0!!2!!0!!70!!9
|-
|rowspan="2"|[[Girona FC|Girona]] (loan)
|[[2016–17 Girona FC season|2016–17]]
|Segunda División
|10||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||10||0
|-
|[[2017–18 Girona FC season|2017–18]]
|La Liga
|30||0||2||1||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||32||1
|-
|rowspan="3"|Girona
|[[2018–19 Girona FC season|2018–19]]
|La Liga
|1||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||1||0
|-
|[[2019–20 Girona FC season|2019–20]]
|Segunda División
|33||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||3{{efn|name=PRO}}||0||36||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Girona total
!74!!0!!2!!1!!0!!0!!3!!0!!79!!1
|-
|[[Atalanta BC|Atalanta]] (loan)
|[[2020–21 Atalanta BC season|2020–21]]
|[[Serie A]]
|11||0||0||0||2{{efn|Appearances in [[UEFA Champions League]]}}||0||colspan="2"|—||13||0
|-
|[[Elche CF|Elche]] (loan)
|[[2020–21 Elche CF season|2020–21]]
|La Liga
|17||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||17||0
|-
|rowspan="3"|Elche
|[[2021–22 Elche CF season|2021–22]]
|La Liga
|33||2||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||34||2
|-
|[[2022–23 Elche CF season|2022–23]]
|La Liga
|3||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||3||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Elche total
!53!!2!!1!!0!!0!!0!!0!!0!!54!!2
|-
|[[Villarreal CF|Villarreal]]
|[[2022–23 Villarreal CF season|2022–23]]
|La Liga
|17||0||3||0||7{{efn|name=UECL|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa Conference League]]}}||0||colspan="2"|—||27||0
|-
|[[CA Osasuna|Osasuna]] (loan)
|[[2023–24 CA Osasuna season|2023–24]]
|La Liga
|30||0||1||0||2{{efn|name=UECL}}||1||1{{efn|name=SCE|Appearance in [[Supercopa de España]]}}||0||34||1
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[RCD Mallorca|Mallorca]]
|[[2024–25 RCD Mallorca season|2024–25]]
|La Liga
|36||1||0||0||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|name=SCE}}||0||37||1
|-
|[[2025–26 La Liga|2025–26]]
|La Liga
|35||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||35||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!71!!1!!0!!0!!0!!0!!1!!0!!72!!1
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!402!!12!!35!!1!!11!!1!!7!!0!!455!!14
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 29 March 2026}}<ref name="NFT"/>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="10"|[[Colombia national football team|Colombia]]
|2015||2||1
|-
|2018||6||0
|-
|2019||1||0
|-
|2020||4||0
|-
|2021||4||0
|-
|2022||4||0
|-
|2023||1||0
|-
|2024||14||0
|-
|2025||5||0
|-
|2026||1||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total||42||1
|}

:''Scores and results list Colombia's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Mojica goal.''<ref name="NFT">{{cite web|url=http://www.national-football-teams.com/player/58696.html|title=Player profile|website=National Football Teams|access-date=31 March 2015}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Johan Mojica
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
|align="center"|1||26 March 2015||[[Bahrain National Stadium]], [[Riffa]], Bahrain||{{fb|BHR}}||align="center"|5–0||align="center"|6–0||[[Exhibition game#Association football|Friendly]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Colombia'''
*[[Copa América]] runner-up: [[2024 Copa América|2024]]

'''Individual'''
*[[Segunda División]] Team of the Year: [[2014–15 Segunda División|2014–15]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
{{commons category}}
*[https://villarrealcf.es/en/player/j-mojica/ Profile] at the Villarreal CF website
*{{BDFutbol}}
*{{Futbolme}}
*{{Soccerway}}

{{RCD Mallorca squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Colombia squads
| bg = #FCD116
| fg = #003893
| bordercolor = #CE1126
| list1 = 
{{Colombia squad 2018 FIFA World Cup}}
{{Colombia squad 2024 Copa América}}
{{Colombia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}
{{2014–15 Segunda División Team of the Year}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Mojica, Johan Andres}}
[[Category:1992 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Cali]]
[[Category:Colombian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football full-backs]]
[[Category:Men's association football wingers]]
[[Category:Categoría Primera A players]]
[[Category:Categoría Primera B players]]
[[Category:Academia F.C. players]]
[[Category:Llaneros F.C. players]]
[[Category:Deportivo Cali footballers]]
[[Category:La Liga players]]
[[Category:Segunda División players]]
[[Category:Rayo Vallecano players]]
[[Category:Real Valladolid players]]
[[Category:Girona FC players]]
[[Category:Elche CF players]]
[[Category:Villarreal CF players]]
[[Category:CA Osasuna players]]
[[Category:RCD Mallorca players]]
[[Category:Serie A players]]
[[Category:Atalanta BC players]]
[[Category:Colombian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Colombian expatriate sportspeople in Spain]]
[[Category:Colombian expatriate sportspeople in Italy]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Spain]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Italy]]
[[Category:Colombia men's international footballers]]
[[Category:2018 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:2024 Copa América players]]
[[Category:21st-century Colombian sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]