{{Short description|Iraqi footballer}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=January 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Jalal Hassan
| image = Jalal Hassan.jpg
| caption = Jalal Hassan in 2019
| full_name = Jalal Hassan Hachem
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|1991|05|18|df=yes}}
| birth_place = [[Al Diwaniyah]], Iraq
| height = 1.88 m
| position = [[Goalkeeper (association football)|Goalkeeper]]
| currentclub = [[Al-Zawraa]]
| clubnumber = 12
| youthyears1 = 
| youthclubs1 = 
| years1 = 2009–2012
| clubs1 = [[Karbalaa FC|Karbala]]
| caps1 = 49
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2012–2014
| clubs2 = [[Erbil SC|Erbil]]
| caps2 = 50
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2014–2015
| clubs3 = [[Amanat Baghdad SC|Amanat Baghdad]]
| caps3 = 
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2015–2016
| clubs4 = [[Al-Shorta]]
| caps4 = 
| goals4 = 0
| years5 = 2016–2017
| clubs5 = [[Naft Al-Wasat]]
| caps5 = 
| goals5 = 0
| years6 = 2017–
| clubs6 = [[Al-Zawraa]]
| caps6 = 
| goals6 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2009–2010
| nationalteam1 = [[Iraq national under-20 football team|Iraq U20]]
| nationalcaps1 = 3
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2011–2014
| nationalteam2 = [[Iraq national under-23 football team|Iraq U23]]
| nationalcaps2 = 8
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2011–
| nationalteam3 = [[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
| nationalcaps3 = 100
| nationalgoals3 = 0
| club-update = 9 April 2024
| nationalteam-update = 18 November 2025
}}

'''Jalal Hassan Hachem''' ({{langx|ar|جَلَال حَسَن هَاشِم}}; born 18 May 1991) is an Iraqi professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Goalkeeper (association football)|goalkeeper]] for and [[Captain (association football)|captains]] both [[Al-Zawraa]] and the [[Iraq national football team|Iraq football team]].

Jalal is the captain of the Iraqi national team, and has been the starting goalkeeper for the majority of the past decade. He is the only Iraqi goalkeeper to claim the starting position in three consecutive Asian Cup campaigns. He led the team to victory in the [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup]] on home soil, ending Iraq's 35-year wait for the trophy.

== Club career ==

=== Early career ===

Jalal started his career with Karbala where he spent three season before moving to Kurdish side Erbil. He was scouted by Hisham Dawood

=== Erbil SC ===

Jalal joined Erbil SC in 2012, where he was mainly a 2nd choice goalkeeper with the club. A few months into his tenure with Erbil, his team reached the final of the [[2012 AFC Cup]], where he was an unused substitute in the final as his team lost 4–0.<ref>{{Cite web |date= |title=AFC CUP 2012 |url=http://www.the-afc.com/en/afc-cup-2012-schedule-results?fixtureid=6791&stageid=262&tMode=H&view=ajax&show=matchsummary |archive-url=https://archive.today/20121205002931/http://www.the-afc.com/en/afc-cup-2012-schedule-results?fixtureid=6791&stageid=262&tMode=H&view=ajax&show=matchsummary |archive-date=2012-12-05 |access-date= |website=www.the-afc.com}}</ref> That same season, Erbil finished in 2nd place, two points behind the champions AL-Shorta. The following season, Erbil reached the final of the [[AFC Cup]], before losing against [[Qadsia SC]] on penalties, Erbil were in second place when the league was ended prematurely due to the conflict in the country at the time.<ref>{{Cite web |title=سوريا تتوج ببطولة غرب آسيا للقدم |url=https://www.aljazeera.net/sport/2012/12/20/%D8%B3%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7-%D8%AA%D8%AA%D9%88%D8%AC-%D8%A8%D8%A8%D8%B7%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A9-%D8%BA%D8%B1%D8%A8-%D8%A2%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%A7-%D9%84%D9%84%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%85 |access-date=2025-01-01 |website=الجزيرة نت |language=ar}}</ref>

=== Amanat Baghdad ===

Jalal moved to the capital Baghdad, ahead of the 2015 Asian Cup.<ref>{{Cite web |title=نادي أمانة بغداد يصادق عقده مع جلال حسن ويستغني عن حارسين |url=https://www.alsumaria.tv/Entertainment-News/123086/sports/%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%AF%D9%8A-%D8%A3%D9%85%D8%A7%D9%86%D8%A9-%D8%A8%D8%BA%D8%AF%D8%A7%D8%AF-%D9%8A%D8%B5%D8%A7%D8%AF%D9%82-%D8%B9%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%87-%D9%85%D8%B9-%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D9%88%D9%8A%D8%B3%D8%AA%D8%BA%D9%86%D9%8A-%D8%B9%D9%86 |access-date=2025-01-01 |website=قناه السومرية العراقية |language=ar}}</ref> He played the second half of the season as his team finished in 6th position in the league.

=== Al Shorta ===

Hassan joined Iraqi giants Al-Shorta for a short-lived stint in 2015. He missed two weeks of the campaign due to [[Burn|First degree burns]] sustained in the shower.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2016-04-09 |title=الاصابة تبعد حارس مرمى المنتخب الوطني العراقي بعد تعرضه لحروق |url=https://www.rudawarabia.net/arabic/sports/09042016 |website=www.rudawarabia.net}}</ref> Following his return from injury, Hassan claimed the starting spot in the squad, as the team finished 7th in the league. He left the team at the end of the season due to the incoming signing of [[Noor Sabri]], saying that "Al Shorta does not have the space for two great goalkeepers"<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=505576 | title=جلال حسن يكشف لكووورة سبب رحيله عن الشرطة العراقي | date=10 July 2019 }}</ref>

=== Naft Al Wasat ===

In the summer of 2016 Hassan joined Naft-Al Wasat on a free transfer<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=497916 | title=نفط الوسط يتعاقد مع الحارس جلال حسن | date=9 July 2019 }}</ref> where he was the starting goalkeeper for the [[Najaf]] based club. He spent one season with the team as they finished in 5th position before leaving at the end of the season.

=== Al-Zawra'a ===

==== 2017–2020 ====
In 2017, Hassan returned to Baghdad, this time joining Al-Zawra'a.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.alkass.net/news_details?news_id=124709 | title=قنوات الكأس الرياضية - الأخبار - الزوراء العراقي يتعاقد مع الحارس الدولي جلال حسن }}</ref> He made his debut in the [[2017 Iraqi Super Cup]], leading Al-Zawraa to a victory over rivals [[Al Quwa Al Jawiya]] by saving two penalties in the shootout.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=643332 | title=حارس الزوراء يوضح لكووورة أسباب تألقه في كأس السوبر العراقي | date=9 July 2019 }}</ref> He suffered a minor injury during the Arabian Gulf Cup with Iraq that kept him out for two weeks.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2018-02-01 |title=النوارس تستعيد جلال حسن وتفقد لاعبين مهمين في النادي |url=https://baghdad-times.net/%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%B3-%D8%AA%D8%B3%D8%AA%D8%B9%D9%8A%D8%AF-%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D9%88%D8%AA%D9%81%D9%82%D8%AF-%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%B9%D8%A8%D9%8A%D9%86-%D9%85/ |access-date=2025-01-01 |website=baghdad-times.net |language=ar}}</ref> Hassan reclaimed his starting spot after his return from injury, and helped the team to win a record-extending 14th league title. Their domestic triumph meant that the team qualified to the [[2019 AFC Champions League]].

In the 2018–19 season Al-Zawra'a failed to retain their title, as they finished third in the table,<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?c=16320&stage=1 | title=كووورة: الموقع العربي الرياضي الأول }}</ref> they also failed to get out of the group in the AFC Champions League, finishing 3rd with eight points in Group A. Al-Zawra'a had a silver lining in the last match of the season, beating [[Al-Kahrabaa SC|Al-Kahrabaa]] to win the Iraqi FA Cup. Their win meant that the club would enter the preliminary round of the Asian Champions League.

Hassan remained with the side for the 2019–2020 season, the team started the season on the wrong foot, after being eliminated from the preliminary round of the [[2019–20 Arab Club Champions Cup]]. In the September of the 2019 season, Hassan suffered an injury during a national team training camp ahead of the World Cup qualifying match against Bahrain.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.beinsports.com/ar-mena/%D9%83%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%85/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A5%D8%B5%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%A9-%D8%AA%D8%A8%D8%B9%D8%AF-%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D8%B9%D9%86- | title=الإصابة تبعد جلال حسن عن تشكيلة العراق ضد البح }}</ref> He was out of action for 6 weeks, and returned to training in October.<ref>{{Cite web |title=تدريبات الزوراء تحمل انباءً سارة لجماهير النوارس |url=https://www.alsumaria.tv/Entertainment-News/322218/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9/%D8%AA%D8%AF%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%AA-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B2%D9%88%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%A1-%D8%AA%D8%AD%D9%85%D9%84-%D8%A7%D9%86%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%A1%D9%8B-%D8%B3%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D9%84%D8%AC%D9%85%D8%A7%D9%87%D9%8A%D8%B1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%B3?src=rss&utm_campaign=rss&utm_source=Rss-articles&utm_term=Rss&utm_medium=Rss-322218 |access-date=2025-01-01 |website=قناه السومرية العراقية |language=ar}}</ref> The season was interrupted in late September and suspended indefinitely in October due to the [[2019–2021 Iraqi protests|2019 Iraqi protests]]. In January 2020, Jalal started for Al-Zawra'a as they were eliminated from the [[Asian Champions League]] Playoff round in a 4–1 defeat to [[FC Bunyodkor]] of [[Uzbekistan]].<ref>{{cite web | url=https://stats.the-afc.com/match_report/16514 | title=AFCS }}</ref> The league resumed in March 2020, only to be cancelled and annulled due to the [[COVID-19 pandemic]]. In November 2020, Hassan himself tested positive for [[COVID-19]].<ref>{{cite web | url=https://ifa.iq/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%B3-%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D9%88%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%AF%D8%B1%D8%A8-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D8%B4-%D9%8A%D9%86%D8%AA%D8%B5%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%86-%D8%B9-5682/ | title=الحارس جلال حسن والمدرب التش ينتصران على "كورونا " }}</ref>

==== 2020–present ====
Due to the cancellation of the previous season's results, Al Zawra'a entered the Asian Champions League at the same stage as last season, once again failing to qualify to the group stage following a 2–1 defeat with UAE side [[Al Wahda FC]] where Hassan played all 90 minutes. Al-Zawra'a came close to the 2020-2021 league title, but finished second behind local rivals [[Al Quwa Al Jawiya]], falling short by 8 points.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?c=17037 | title=كووورة: الموقع العربي الرياضي الأول }}</ref> His team also reached the final of the FA Cup to face the same opponent, but he missed the match due to injury;<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=1049958 | title=الزوراء يفتقد خدمات حارسه في نهائي كأس العراق | date=18 July 2021 }}</ref> Al-Zawra'a ended up losing the match on penalties. However, due to being runner up in both tournaments, they received a place in the Champions League playoff for the third season running. Jalal's performances in the season led him to being voted as the best goalkeeper in Iraq.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=19-zZh6B32E | title=لجهوده المتميزة مع المنتخب والنادي.. جلال حسن يفوز بجائزة #سوكر_ستار &#124; أفضل حارس لعام 2020 - 2021 | website=[[YouTube]] | date=19 July 2021 }}</ref>

In 2021–2022, Al-Zawra'a had one of their worst years in recent memory. The season started out strong for Al-Zawra'a, who won the [[2021 Iraqi Super Cup]], however Jalal was still recovering from injury and was not part of the squad. The club finished 6th in the domestic league, and were knocked out in the semi final of the Iraq FA Cup under the management of [[Essam Hamad]] who was sacked in December. [[Haidar Abdul-Amir]] was the caretaker manager but after 1 win in 5 games he too was replaced, this time with [[Ayoub Odisho]]. Due to the re-shuffling of the Asian calendar, Al-Zawra'a did not play Asian competitions until March 2022. The club failed to qualify to the Champions League proper, after losing to UAE side [[Al Sharjah SC]] on penalties in the playoff round, where Jalal was sent off in the match.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.mala3eb.com/Section_5015/%D8%AF%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%B7%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%A7%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%A7/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B2%D9%88%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%A1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A-%D9%8A%D9%88%D8%AF%D8%B9-%D8%AF%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%8A-%D8%A3%D8%A8%D8%B7%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%A7%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%A7_160159 | title=الزوراء العراقي يودع دوري أبطال اسيا - ملاعب | work=ملاعب | date=16 March 2022 }}</ref> He won the [[Soccer Iraq#Player of the Year|Soccer Iraq Player of the Year]] award at the end of the 2022 calendar year due to his performances with the national team.

Ahead of the 2022–23 season, Hassan renewed his contract with Al-Zawra'a to remain for another season, and was reportedly earning the equivalent of US$150,000 per season.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2021-03-24 |title=حصري: تعرف إلى عقود أغلى لاعبي الدوري العراقي الممتاز |url=https://www.winwin.com/%D9%83%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%85/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1/%D8%AD%D8%B5%D8%B1%D9%8A-%D8%AA%D8%B9%D8%B1%D9%81-%D8%A5%D9%84%D9%89-%D8%B9%D9%82%D9%88%D8%AF-%D8%A3%D8%BA%D9%84%D9%89-%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%B9%D8%A8%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AF%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D9%85%D8%AA%D8%A7%D8%B2 |website=www.winwin.com}}</ref> The club had an improvement the following season, finishing 3rd in the league with 68 points,<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?c=25038 | title=كووورة: الموقع العربي الرياضي الأول }}</ref> however the club once again failed to win the FA Cup, losing to Al Jawiya on penalties in the quarter final. Despite the club's disappointing domestic campaign, Al-Zawra'a were awarded a spot in the [[2023–24 AFC Cup]], due to the teams that finished above them not earning the AFC license to participate.<ref>{{Cite news |title=أن... - الاتحاد العراقي لكرة القدم - Iraq Football Association |url=https://www.facebook.com/iraqfa/posts/pfbid0SSBGYowK9EvbQTqkvbK854opAYZ3WUKWkgLy86QQFaBjugmQfCf94RFgrAkQAaZ1l |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20230930110135/https://www.facebook.com/iraqfa/posts/pfbid0SSBGYowK9EvbQTqkvbK854opAYZ3WUKWkgLy86QQFaBjugmQfCf94RFgrAkQAaZ1l |archive-date=30 September 2023 |access-date=2025-01-01 |language=en-US |url-status=live }}</ref> Jalal won the Soccer Star Goalkeeper of the Year for the second time due to his performances in the season.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FpbFfiEXDs0 | title=جائزة افضل حارس مرمى لعام 2022 - 2023 تذهب الى اللعب جلال حسين من حفل جوائز سوكر ستار | website=[[YouTube]] | date=8 June 2023 }}</ref> He also won the award for best goalkeeper in the Gulf region for his performances that season, as voted on by Sky News Arabia.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://alghadpress.com/23564--.html | title=جلال حسن يفوز بجائزة افضل حارس في الخليج }}</ref>

In September 2023, Hassan extended his contract to remain for a 7th season with the club.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2023-08-06 |title=جلال حسن يمدد بقاءه في الزوراء العراقي |url=https://www.winwin.com/%D9%83%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D9%82%D8%AF%D9%85/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1/%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D9%8A%D9%85%D8%AF%D8%AF-%D8%A8%D9%82%D8%A7%D8%A1%D9%87-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B2%D9%88%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%A1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A |website=www.winwin.com}}</ref> Hassan's suspension from his last continental club match carried over across tournaments and he missed the opening match of the AFC Cup against [[Al-Arabi SC (Kuwait)|Al-Arabi]] of Kuwait.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2023-09-14 |title=جلال حسن يغيب عن أولى مباريات النوارس الآسيوية |url=https://almaalomah.me/news/sports/%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D9%8A%D8%BA%D9%8A%D8%A8-%D8%B9%D9%86-%D8%A3%D9%88%D9%84%D9%89-%D9%85%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%AA-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%86%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%B3-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A2%D8%B3%D9%8A%D9%88%D9%8A%D8%A9 |website=almaalomah.me}}</ref> The team had a disappointing tournament, exiting from the group stage after finishing runners up in Group B to eventual champions [[Al Ahed FC]]. He suffered an ankle injury in April<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.alkhaleej.ae/2024-04-14/%D8%A5%D8%B5%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%B3-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82%D9%8A-%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A8%D9%8A/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9 | title=إصابة الحارس العراقي جلال حسن &#124; صحيفة الخليج | work=صحيفة الخليج }}</ref> which kept him out of the side for two months before returning ahead of the match against Al-Hedood.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2024-06-26 |title=الزوراء يستعيد جلال حسن أمام الحدود |url=https://almaalomah.me/news/68615/sports/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B2%D9%88%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%A1-%D9%8A%D8%B3%D8%AA%D8%B9%D9%8A%D8%AF-%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D8%A3%D9%85%D8%A7%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%AF%D9%88%D8%AF |website=almaalomah.me}}</ref> Al-Zawra'a once again lost against Al Jawiya in the FA Cup, this time in the Semi Final, and finished 3rd in the league in a repeat of their result from last season.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?c=26656 | title=كووورة: الموقع العربي الرياضي الأول }}</ref>

Jalal Hassan remained with Al-Zawra'a for his 8th consecutive season with the club, ahead of the 2024–25 season.

== International career ==

Hassan was called up to the [[Iraq national football team|Iraqi national team]] for the first time in 2011 ahead of a friendly match against [[Uganda national football team|Uganda]].<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=123432 | title=دعوة الحارس نور صبري للانضمام لتدريبات اسود الرافدين استعدادا للاردن | date=9 July 2019 }}</ref>

Hassan was called up to the [[21st Arabian Gulf Cup]] in 2013 that was held in [[Bahrain]]. He was an unused substitute in the tournament as Iraq reached the final before losing against the [[United Arab Emirates national football team|United Arab Emirates]] in extra time.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2013/01/18/asia/gulf-cup/united-arab-emirates/iraq/1418682/ | title=UAE vs. Iraq - 18 January 2013 - Soccerway }}</ref>

Jalal was called up to the Iraqi squad in the 2015 Asian Cup, he started all the matches as Iraq reached the Semi Final, but lost 2–0 against [[South Korea national football team|South Korea]]. Iraqi GK coach [[Emad Hashim]] refused to blame Hassan for the goals that were conceded in the semi final, saying that "the goals were due to a combination of mistakes between the goalkeeper and defensive line."<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=380457 | title=هاشم يرفض تحميل حارس العراق مسؤولية الخروج من كأس آسيا | date=9 July 2019 }}</ref> Hassan did not take part in the 3rd and 4th place match, which Iraq lost.

In the next international break, former goalkeeper [[Noor Sabri]] returned to the national team following a two-year absence. Despite his position as the number 1 in the team being put under threat, Hassan claimed that "he welcomes the return of Noor Sabri to the squad."<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=418900 | title=جلال حسن لكووورة: لست قلقا من عودة نور صبري إلى منتخب العراق | date=8 July 2019 }}</ref>

Hassan was called up to the Iraqi squad in 2017 for [[23rd Arabian Gulf Cup]], held in [[Kuwait]]. He started all 4 matches as Iraq were knocked out in the semi final of the tournament against the UAE on penalties.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Irag vs. UAE - 2 January 2018 |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2018/01/02/asia/gulf-cup/iraq/united-arab-emirates/2702984/?ICID=PL_MS_02 |website=int.soccerway.com}}</ref>

Hassan was called up to the Iraqi squad for the [[2019 Asian Cup]]. He was the first goalkeeper in Iraq's history to start back to back major tournaments. Iraq were knocked out in the round of 16 against [[Qatar national football team|Qatar]], in a match where Hassan was heavily criticized for his performance.  He was also called up to the [[24th Arabian Gulf Cup]], where Iraq lost in the semi final against [[Bahrain national football team|Bahrain]].<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.kooora.com/?n=875430 | title=ركلات الترجيح تحمل البحرين لنهائي خليجي 24 على حساب العراق | date=5 December 2019 }}</ref>

Hassan was called up to the Iraqi squad in the [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup]] on home soil. Hassan started all 5 matches in the tournament as captain. He saved a penalty kick in the 82nd minute of the final against [[Oman national football team|Oman]], however he conceded another penalty in the final moments of regular time,<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.france24.com/ar/%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%A7%D8%B6%D8%A9/20230119-%D8%AE%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%AC%D9%8A-25-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%82-%D9%8A%D8%AD%D9%82%D9%82-%D9%81%D9%88%D8%B2%D8%A7-%D9%82%D8%A7%D8%AA%D9%84%D8%A7-%D8%B9%D9%84%D9%89-%D8%B9%D9%8F%D9%85%D8%A7%D9%86-3-2-%D8%A8%D8%B9%D8%AF-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D9%85%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%AF-%D9%88%D9%8A%D8%AD%D8%B1%D8%B2-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%84%D9%82%D8%A8-%D9%84%D9%84%D9%85%D8%B1%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B1%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%B9%D8%A9-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%AA%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%AE%D9%87 | title=خليجي 25: العراق يحقق فوزا قاتلا على عُمان (3-2) بعد التمديد ويحرز اللقب للمرة الرابعة في تاريخه | date=19 January 2023 }}</ref> Iraq went on to win 3–2 in the final as Iraq went on to win the title,<ref>{{cite web | url=https://almaalomah.me/news/sports/%D9%86%D9%88%D8%B1-%D8%B5%D8%A8%D8%B1%D9%8A:-%D8%AC%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%B3%D9%86-%D9%81%D8%A7%D8%B2-%D8%A8%D8%AC%D8%A7%D8%A6%D8%B2%D8%A9-%D8%A3%D9%87%D9%85-%D9%85%D9%86-%D8%A3%D9%81%D8%B6%D9%84-%D8%AD%D8%A7%D8%B1%D8%B3-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%AE%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%AC%D9%8A-25 | title=نور صبري: جلال حسن فاز بجائزة أهم من أفضل حارس في خليجي 25 | work=Almaalouma | date=21 January 2023 | author1=Almaalouma }}</ref> their first since 1988.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2023-01-19 |title=العراق ينشد فرحة منتظرة منذ 44 عاماً أمام عمان |url=https://www.alriyadh.com/1993313 |website=www.alriyadh.com}}</ref>

Hassan continued to be number 1 under [[Jesús Casas]] extending his record to be the only Iraqi goalkeeper to start three consecutive Asian Cup tournaments when he was called up to the squad as captain ahead of the [[2023 Asian Cup]]. Iraq lost in the round of 16 once again, in a controversial match against [[Jordan national football team|Jordan]] which saw Iraq's talisman [[Aymen Hussein]] sent off for receiving a second yellow card for his celebration.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.wafa.ps/Pages/Details/89077 | title=منتخب الأردن يبلغ ربع نهائي آسيا بفوز دراماتيكي قاتل على العراق }}</ref> Hassan received a US$10,000 fine for his comments on the referee after the match.<ref>{{Cite web |date=2024-03-28 |title=الاتحاد الآسيوي يعاقب يونس محمود وعددا من لاعبي المنتخب العراقي |url=https://www.rudawarabia.net/arabic/sports/280320241 |website=www.rudawarabia.net}}</ref>

On 18 November 2025, Hassan made his 100th international appearance in a 2–1 victory over the United Arab Emirates during the [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification (AFC)|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]], which secured a place in the [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification (inter-confederation play-offs)|inter-confederation play-offs]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.newarab.com/news/iraq-down-uae-world-cup-qualifying-al-ammari-penalty |title=Iraq down UAE in World Cup qualifying with late Al-Ammari penalty |publisher=The New Arab |date=19 November 2025 }}</ref>

== Style of play ==

Hassan is known for his bravery, often putting his body on the line in order to prevent the opponent from scoring, as well as going out to claim crosses in an aggressive manner. His former manager Basim Qasim has described him as a "brave goalkeeper, who must continue to be brave in order to remain the goalkeeper of the national team."<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tOZ5drSOeyM | title=ماذا قال المدرب باسم قاسم عن الحارس جلال حسن \ كوورة | website=[[YouTube]] | date=17 August 2019 }}</ref>

== Personal life ==

Jalal Hassan got married in 2019.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2x4tgbAnZwE | title=زواج الحارس جلال حسن&#124;&#124;الف مبروك 🎈⚽️❤ | website=[[YouTube]] | date=22 December 2019 }}</ref> He has two children, one son and one daughter.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.instagram.com/p/CwpHYtdLlyg/ | title=Instagram }}</ref>

His favorite goalkeeper is Italian legend [[Gianluigi Buffon]] and his favorite food is [[masgouf]]. He considers [[Ahmed Ibrahim Khalaf]] to be one of his closest friends.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxs73qQvd-o | title=من هو جلال حسن؟ تعرف عليه من خلال الفيديو &#124; هاتريك | website=[[YouTube]] | date=17 August 2020 }}</ref>

He faced a wave of criticism in 2019 following Iraq's defeat in the Asian Cup, where many fans thought he was responsible for the goal conceded by Iraq in their round of 16 defeat against Qatar. This criticism continued for months following the tournament.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=S0_AbykBuko | title=مقدمة علامي علي سالم عن الحارس جلال حسن وما تعرض له من تشهير وتسقيط .. كوورة | website=[[YouTube]] | date=7 July 2019 }}</ref>

Several key players such as [[Mohanad Ali]] and [[Mohammed Gassid]] as well as media personalities came out in support of Hassan both through TV programs and social media.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=_zFiPubP0W8 | title=ملخص وقفة برنامج كوورة مع الحارس جلال حسن ومساندة الوسط الرياضي له | website=[[YouTube]] | date=15 April 2019 }}</ref> However others, most notably Iraq's all-time most capped player [[Younis Mahmoud]] criticized Hassan for the way he handled the issue, saying that "the national team captain should not allow himself to get affected by the words published online."{{Citation needed|date=December 2024}}

Due to his position as captain of one of Iraq's biggest clubs and its national team, Hassan has appeared in a number of commercials in Iraq. He appeared in numerous commercials for Iraqi Telecom company Earthlink,<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.instagram.com/p/C4bTIdUrcqS/ | title=Instagram }}</ref><ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sqcA0x8G9bI | title=خليك وطني .. خليك مدلل | website=[[YouTube]] | date=9 April 2024 }}</ref> as well as real estate company Esrar.<ref>{{cite web | url=https://www.instagram.com/p/C5afF0SKhyw/ | title=Instagram }}</ref>

==Career statistics==
{{updated|match played 18 November 2025}}<ref>{{NFT player|44251|name=Hassan Hachim, Jalal|access-date=20 November 2023}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="15"|[[Iraq national football team|Iraq]]
|2011||1||0
|-
|2012||5||0
|-
|2013||2||0
|-
|2014||8||0
|-
|2015||9||0
|-
|2016||5||0
|-
|2017||5||0
|-
|2018||8||0
|-
|2019||12||0
|-
|2020||1||0
|-
|2021||6||0
|-
|2022||7||0
|-
|2023||9||0
|-
|2024||15||0
|-
|2025||7||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!100!!0
|}

==Honors==
'''Al-Zawraa'''
*[[Iraqi Premier League]]: [[2017–18 Iraqi Premier League|2017–18]]
*[[Iraq FA Cup]]: [[2018–19 Iraq FA Cup|2018–19]]
*[[Iraqi Super Cup]]: [[2017 Iraqi Super Cup|2017]]

'''Iraq'''
* [[Arabian Gulf Cup]]: [[25th Arabian Gulf Cup|2023]]

'''Individual'''
* Soccer Star Iraqi Goalkeeper of the year: 2021–2022, 2022–2023
*[[Soccer Iraq#Player of the Year|Soccer Iraq Player of the Year]]: 2022
* [[Sky News Arabia]] Best Goalkeeper in the Gulf region of the year: 2023

== References ==
{{Reflist}}

== External links ==
*{{Sports links}}

{{Navboxes
|title= Iraq squads
|bg=#017B3D
|fg=white
|bordercolor=black
|list1=
{{Iraq squad 2015 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq squad 2019 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq squad 2023 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{Iraq squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}
{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Hassan, Jalal}}
[[Category:1991 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Iraqi men's footballers]]
[[Category:Footballers from Baghdad]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2014 Asian Games]]
[[Category:2015 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:2019 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:2023 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:Men's association football goalkeepers]]
[[Category:Naft Al-Wasat SC players]]
[[Category:Iraq men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Al-Shorta SC players]]
[[Category:Asian Games bronze medalists for Iraq]]
[[Category:Medalists at the 2014 Asian Games]]
[[Category:Asian Games bronze medalists in football]]
[[Category:FIFA Men's Century Club]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]