{{short description|Paraguayan footballer (born 1999)}}
{{Use British English|date=June 2025}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=June 2025}}
{{Family name hatnote|Sosa|Acosta|lang=Spanish}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Ramón Sosa
|full_name = Ramón Sosa Acosta
|image = Ramon-sosa-palmeiras-sport-ago-25-4 (cropped).jpg
|image_size = 
|caption = Sosa playing for [[SE Palmeiras|Palmeiras]] in 2025
|birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1999|8|31|df=y}}
|birth_place = [[Canindeyú|Maracaná]], Paraguay
|height = 1.78 m
|position = [[Midfielder#Winger|Winger]]
|currentclub = [[Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras|Palmeiras]]
|clubnumber = 19
|youthyears1 = {{0|0000}}
|youthclubs1 = Tembetary
|youthyears2 = {{0|0000}}
|youthclubs2 = [[Club River Plate (Asunción)|River Plate-PY]]
|years1 = 2020–2021
|clubs1 = [[Club River Plate (Asunción)|River Plate]]
|caps1 = 29
|goals1 = 4
|years2 = 2021–2022
|clubs2 = [[Club Olimpia|Olimpia]]
|caps2 = 30
|goals2 = 3
|years3 = 2022–2023
|clubs3 = [[Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata|Gimnasia LP]]
|caps3 = 42
|goals3 = 6
|years4 = 2023–2024
|clubs4 = [[Talleres de Córdoba|Talleres]]
|caps4 = 48
|goals4 = 14
|years5 = 2024–2025
|clubs5 = [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]]
|caps5 = 19
|goals5 = 1
|years6 = 2025–
|clubs6 = [[Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras|Palmeiras]]
|caps6 = 41
|goals6 = 5
|nationalyears1 = 2022–
|nationalteam1 = [[Paraguay national football team|Paraguay]]
|nationalcaps1 = 28
|nationalgoals1 = 1
|pcupdate = 2 April 2026
|ntupdate = 22:44, 27 March 2026 (UTC)
}}

'''Ramón Sosa Acosta''' (born 31 August 1999) is a Paraguayan professional footballer who plays as a [[Midfielder#Winger|winger]] for [[Campeonato Brasileiro Série A]] club [[SE Palmeiras|Palmeiras]], and the [[Paraguay national football team|Paraguay national team]].

Sosa started his senior career at [[Paraguay|River Plate Asunción]], before moving to fellow Paraguayan club, [[Club Olimpia|Olimpia]]. He played for Argentine sides, such as Gimnasia La Plata and Talleres de Cordoba before moving to Europe, as he signed for the Premier League side, Nottingham Forest in August 2024. After one years in Nottingham Forest, Sosa signed for the Brazilian side, Palmeiras.

At international level, he made his debut for Paraguay at November 2022. He represented the nation at [[2024 Copa América]].

==Early life==
Ramon Sosa was born in the small Paraguayan town of [[Canindeyú|Maracaná]]. Since he was a child, he has always played [[association football|football]] and began his career at the Tembetary club. After a brief stint training with [[Club Atlético Lanús|Lanús]], he moved to the capital city [[Asunción]] when he joined [[Club River Plate (Asunción)|River Plate Asunción]].

==Club career==
===River Plate===
Sosa joined the youth setups of [[Paraguayan Primera División|Division Profesional]] club [[Club River Plate (Asunción)]] at an early age. He eventually signed for the senior team in 2020, having a break-out season for the club. He scored his first goal for the club in a 1–1 draw against [[Club Nacional]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/561393|title= Sosa scores first goal in 1–1 draw|publisher=ESPN}}</ref> Sosa went on to score 4 goals in 29 league appearances,<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://ie.soccerway.com/players/ramon-sosa-acosta/648749/|title=Sosa stats|publisher=Soccerway}}</ref> as well as making two appearances in the [[Copa Sudamericana]] against [[Deportivo Cali]], losing both games.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.besoccer.com/match/deportivo-cali/river-plate-asuncion/2020492022|title=Deportivo Cali 2–1 River Plate|website=besoccer.com}}</ref>{{citation needed|date=March 2025}}

===Olimpia===
In January 2021, Sosa signed for [[Club Olimpia|Olimpia]], in a deal reported to be about 800 thousand [[United States dollar|dollars]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.abc.com.py/deportes/futbol/2021/01/05/sosa-se-pone-la-franja/|title=Olimpia sign Ramon Sosa from River Plate|website=abc.com.py}}</ref>
Sosa made his debut for the club in a 1–0 home loss to [[Club Libertad]], playing the full 90 minutes.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2021/02/07/paraguay/division-profesional/club-olimpia/club-libertad/3444418/|title=Olimpia 0–1 Club Libertad|publisher=Soccerway}}</ref> Sosa was performing well for his new club, with the team finishing second in the [[2021 Paraguayan Primera División season#Torneo Apertura|Torneo Apertura]], and he was attracting attention from clubs such as [[Campeonato Brasileiro Série A|Brazilian Serie A]] side [[Red Bull Bragantino]],<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://versus.lanacion.com.py/versus/2021/08/16/olimpia-desde-brasil-y-la-mls-quieren-llevarse-a-ramon-sosa/|title=Sosa linked with Red Bull Bragantino|website=versus.lanacion.com.py|date=16 August 2021 }}</ref> and even Brazilian giants [[CR Flamengo|Flamengo]] enguired about Sosa after their [[Copa Libertadores]] defeat to the Brazilians.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.correiobraziliense.com.br/esportes/2021/08/4944545-balada-carioca-em-brasilia-flamengo-goleia-olimpia-e-esta-nas-semis-da-libertadores.html|title=Flamengo flatten Olimpia in 9–2 aggregate score|website=Correio Braziliense|date=18 August 2021 }}</ref>

In the 2021 season, Sosa helped Olimpia to the [[2021 Copa Paraguay]] trophy, scoring two goals in the competition, including the winner in a 3–2 win against [[Club Cristóbal Colón de Juan Augusto Saldívar|Club Cristobal]] in the [[2021 Copa Paraguay#Round of 32|round of 32]].,<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.apf.org.py/n/olimpia-paso-a-la-proxima-etapa-de-la-copa-de-todos|title=Sosa grabs winner in 3–2 win|website=apf.org.py}}</ref> as well as winning the [[2021 Supercopa Paraguay|Supercopa]] against bitter rivals [[Cerro Porteño]], although he was an unused substitute in a 3–1 win.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.apf.org.py/n/olimpia-es-supercampeon|title=Olimpia lift Supercopa|website=apf.org.py|access-date=17 November 2022|archive-date=7 December 2022|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20221207025810/https://www.apf.org.py/n/olimpia-es-supercampeon|url-status=dead}}</ref>

In the entirety of the 2021 season, Sosa made 24 league appearances for Olimpia, scored two league goals. Sosa also made 6 appearances in the [[Copa Libertadores]], scoring one goal.

===Gimnasia===
In January 2022 Sosa signed for [[Argentine Primera División]] team [[Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata|Gimasia La Plata]] for a reported [[United States dollar|$]]1.3&nbsp;million on a three-year deal. On the signing, which he had been asking for a while, manager [[Néstor Gorosito]] said "Sosa arrives with an enormous projection from Paraguay," he also said that the [[Paraguay national football team|Paraguayan team]] were looking at him. Sosa made his debut for his new club in a 0–0 draw away to [[Racing Club de Avellaneda|Racing Club]], receiving a yellow card.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.sportsmole.co.uk/football/argentina-primera-division/racing-club-vs-gimnasia_game_151435.html|title=Racing Club 0–0 Gimnasia La Plata|website=sportsmole.co.uk}}</ref> Sosa score his first goal for the club from the [[Penalty kick (association football)|penalty spot]] in a 3–0 away win against [[Club Atlético Platense|Platense]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/627394|title=Sosa opens Gimnasia account against Platense|publisher=ESPN}}</ref> Across the season Sosa scored 6 goals in 39 matches as he became a star player for Gimnasia, helping them back to continental football in qualification for the [[2023 Copa Sudamericana]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://infocielo.com/deportes/gimnasia/gimnasia-y-la-copa-sudamericana-que-dice-la-historia-n748993|title=Gimnasia return to Copa Sudamericana|website=infocielo.com|date=27 March 2023 }}</ref>

===Talleres===
In January 2023, Sosa signed for Argentine Primera División team [[Talleres de Córdoba|Talleres]] for a reported $2.26&nbsp;million on a three-year deal. Sosa was subject to a bid from [[Major League Soccer]] side [[LA Galaxy]] in December 2023.<ref>{{Cite news|url=https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/5138762/2023/12/14/galaxy-ramon-sosa-bid/|title=LA Galaxy made bid for Ramón Sosa from Talleres|first1=Tom|last1=Bogert|first2=Paul|last2=Tenorio|work=The New York Times |date=15 December 2023 }}</ref>

Sosa made his debut for the club in a 2–0 win over [[Atlético Tucumán]] in February 2023.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.espn.com.ar/futbol/partido/_/juegoId/656233/talleres-cordoba-atletico-tucuman|title=Talleres 2–0 Atletico Tucuman|publisher=espn.com.ar|language=es|date=5 February 2023}}</ref> He scored his first goal for the club in a 3–0 win over [[Instituto Atlético Central Córdoba|Instituto]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.foxsports.com/soccer/argentina-primera-instituto-ac-cordoba-vs-talleres-apr-02-2023-game-boxscore-113611|title=Instituto 0–3 Talleres|work=Fox Sports|date=2 April 2023}}</ref> He finished the season with 10 goals in 35 appearances in all competitions.{{citation needed|date=July 2025}}

===Nottingham Forest===
On 16 August 2024, Sosa signed a five-year deal with [[Premier League]] club [[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.nottinghamforest.co.uk/news/2024/august/16/forest-complete-signing-of-ramon-sosa/|date=16 August 2024|publisher=Nottingham Forest F.C. |title=Forest complete signing of Ramón Sosa }}</ref> He made his debut for the club in a [[2024–25 EFL Cup|EFL Cup]] second round fixture against [[Newcastle United F.C.|Newcastle United]], appearing as a 69th-minute substitute.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/cj35z81mmelt |date= 28 August 2024|access-date=29 August 2024|publisher=BBC|title= Nottingham Forest vs Newcastle United: League Cup}}</ref> Sosa scored his only Premier League goal for the club against [[Brighton & Hove Albion F.C.|Brighton & Hove Albion]] in an away game at the [[AMEX Stadium]] on 22 September.<ref>{{Cite news |last=Mail |first=Simon |date=22 September 2024 |title=Nottingham Forest's Sosa earns point as three see red in fiery draw at Brighton |url=https://www.theguardian.com/football/2024/sep/22/brighton-nottingham-forest-premier-league-match-report |access-date=2024-09-23 |work=[[The Guardian]] |language=en-GB |issn=0261-3077}}</ref>

==International career==
Sosa never participated for any underage Paraguayan national teams, but in November 2022, he was called up to the [[Paraguay national football team|senior team]] for their friendlies against [[Peru national football team|Peru]] and [[Colombia national football team|Colombia]],<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://english.news.cn/20221112/5a9b0308593e4b4f97c39464e7768b9a/c.html|title=Sosa called up to national team|website=english.news.cn}}</ref> in which he made his debut in a 2–0 loss to Colombia.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.vavel.com/en-us/soccer/2022/11/19/1129845-colombia-vs-paraguay-live-stream-score-updates-and-how-to-watch-friendly-match.html|title= Sosa makes international debut|website=vavel.com|date= 25 June 2024}}</ref>

Sosa was included in the Paraguay squad for the [[2024 Copa América]]. The team was eliminated in the group stage, with Sosa playing every game and registering a goal in a 2–1 loss to [[Costa Rica national football team|Costa Rica]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/cw4yp3pk0qxt|title=Costa Rica 2–1 Paraguay|publisher=BBC|date=3 August 2024}}</ref>

== Player profile ==
Ramón Sosa is 1.78 meters tall and weighs 75 kilograms. He primarily plays as a left [[winger (football)|winger]], but he has also played on the right wing and as an attacking [[midfielder]]. While he has the ability to excel across the entire attacking front, his optimal performance is observed when he plays on the left.<ref name="o"/> The Paraguayan footballer possesses several outstanding characteristics, with the most notable being his speed, acceleration, [[dribbling]], and change of pace.<ref name="o">{{Cite web |url=https://www.topmercato.com/arg/1686596-como-juega-ramon-sosa-el-crack-paraguayo-que-brilla-en-talleres/ |title=Cómo juega Ramón Sosa, el crack que brilla en Talleres y quiere Boca |access-date=15 July 2024 |date=4 May 2024 |website=Top Mercato |language=es}}</ref><ref name="t"/>

In a statistical report by [[SofaScore]] issued in March 2024, Sosa is ranked as the best dribbler in the [[2024 Argentine Primera División]].<ref name="reg" />

He has been a standout in numerous matches with [[Talleres de Córdoba]].<ref name="t">{{Cite web |title=Talleres: se viene la venta más cara de su historia |url=https://www.ole.com.ar/talleres/jugador-talleres-solo-saldra-20-millones-ramon-sosa_0_xK4B8qBqzq.html |date=15 May 2024 |access-date=15 July 2024 |website=Olé |language=es-AR}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |last=Nahúm |first=Jorge |title=Ramón Sosa, imparable en Talleres: entre los extranjeros más goleadores del historial de la T |url=https://prod-arc.viapais.com.ar/cordoba/ramon-sosa-imparable-en-talleres-entre-los-extranjeros-mas-goleadores-del-historial-de-la-t/ |date=4 February 2024 |access-date= 15 July 2024 |website=Vía País |language=es-AR}}</ref> During his time at the club, he was frequently regarded as "one of the most disruptive players in Argentine football" and also "the most disruptive player in Argentine football," often being described as "unstoppable."<ref name="reg">{{Cite web |title=Ramón Sosa, uno de los jugadores más "imparables" del fútbol argentino |url=https://onefootball.com/es/noticias/ramon-sosa-uno-de-los-jugadores-mas-imparables-del-futbol-argentino-39199660 |date=13 March 2024 |access-date=15 July 2024 |website=One Football |language=es}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web |title=Ramón Sosa entre los mejores "regateadores" del fútbol argentino |url=https://www.versus.com.py/versus/2024/04/19/ramon-sosa-entre-los-mejores-regateadores-del-futbol-argentino/ |date=19 April 2024 |access-date=15 July 2024 |website=Versus |language=es}}</ref><ref name="t" />

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 2 April 2026}}<ref name="sw">{{Cite web|url=https://int.soccerway.com/players/ramon-sosa-acosta/648749/|title=Ramon Sosa|website=Soccerway|access-date=27 April 2025}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center"
|+ Appearances, goals and assists by club, season and competition
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Copa Argentina]], [[FA Cup]], [[Copa do Brasil]]}}
!colspan="2"|League cup{{efn|Includes [[EFL Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|Continental
!colspan="2"|Other
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals||Apps||Goals
|-
|[[Club River Plate (Asunción)|River Plate]]
|[[2020 Paraguayan Primera División season|2020]]
|[[Paraguayan Primera División]]
|29||4||0||0||0||0||2{{efn|Appearances in [[Copa Sudamericana]]}}||0||0||0||31||4 
|-
|[[Club Olimpia|Olimpia]]
|[[2021 Paraguayan Primera División season|2021]]
|Paraguayan Primera División
|24||2||0||0||0||0||6{{efn|name=CL|Appearances in [[Copa Libertadores]]}}||1||0||0||30||3
|-
|[[Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata|Gimasia La Plata]]
|[[2022 Argentine Primera División|2022]]
|[[Argentine Primera División]]
|39||6||3||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||42||6
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Talleres de Córdoba|Talleres]]
|[[2023 Argentine Primera División|2023]]
|Argentine Primera División
|32||8||3||2||0||0||0||0||0||0||35||10
|-
|[[2024 Argentine Primera División|2024]]
|Argentine Primera División
|16||6||0||0||0||0||5{{efn|name=CL}}||1||0||0||21||7
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!48!!14!!3!!2!!0!!0!!5!!1!!0!!0!!56!!17
|-
|[[Nottingham Forest F.C.|Nottingham Forest]]
|[[2024–25 Nottingham Forest F.C. season|2024–25]]
|[[Premier League]]
|19||1||3||2||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||23||3
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras|Palmeiras]]
|[[2025 SE Palmeiras season|2025]]
|[[Campeonato Brasileiro Série A|Série A]]
|23||3||2||0||colspan="2"|—||3{{efn|name=CL}}||1||colspan="2"|—||28||4
|-
|[[2026 SE Palmeiras season|2026]]
|Série A
|8||1||0||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||10{{efn|Appearances in [[Campeonato Paulista]]}}||1||18||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!31!!4!!2!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!3!!1!!10!!1!!45!!6
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!190!!31!!11!!4!!1!!0!!16!!3!!10!!1!!228!!39
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 27 March 2026}}<ref name="sw"/>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="5"|[[Paraguay national football team|Paraguay]]
|2022||1||0
|-
|2023||7||0
|-
|2024||12||1
|-
|2025||7||0
|-
|2026||1||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!28!!1
|}

==Honours==
'''Olimpia'''
*[[Copa Paraguay]]: [[2021 Copa Paraguay|2021]]
*[[Supercopa Paraguay]]: [[2021 Supercopa Paraguay|2021]]

'''Palmeiras'''
*[[Campeonato Paulista]]: [[2026 Campeonato Paulista|2026]]

'''Individual'''
* Arsenio Erico Award: 2024

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*{{Soccerway|ramon-sosa/648749}}

{{Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Paraguay squads
| bg = #D52B1E
| fg = white
| bordercolor = #0038A8
| list1 =
{{Paraguay squad 2024 Copa América}}
{{Paraguay squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Sosa, Ramon}}
[[Category:1999 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:People from Canindeyú Department]]
[[Category:Paraguayan men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football wingers]]
[[Category:Club River Plate (Asunción) footballers]]
[[Category:Club Olimpia footballers]]
[[Category:Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata footballers]]
[[Category:Talleres de Córdoba footballers]]
[[Category:Nottingham Forest F.C. players]]
[[Category:Paraguayan Primera División players]]
[[Category:Argentine Primera División players]]
[[Category:Premier League players]]
[[Category:Paraguay men's international footballers]]
[[Category:2024 Copa América players]]
[[Category:Paraguayan expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Paraguayan expatriate sportspeople in Argentina]]
[[Category:Paraguayan expatriate sportspeople in England]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Argentina]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in England]]
[[Category:21st-century Paraguayan sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]