{{short description|South Korean footballer}}
{{family name hatnote|Park||lang=Korean}}
{{distinguish|Park Jin-sub}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=February 2024}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Park Jin-seob
| image = 250702 FC 서울 vs 전북 (박진섭).jpg
| caption = Park in 2025
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|1995|10|23|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Jeonju]], South Korea
| height = {{height|m=1.84}}
| currentclub = [[Zhejiang Professional F.C.|Zhejiang FC]]
| clubnumber = 4
| position = [[Midfielder (association football)#Defensive midfielder|Defensive midfielder]], [[Defender (association football)#Centre-back|centre-back]]
| youthyears1 = 2011–2013
| youthclubs1 = Jeonju Technical High School
| collegeyears1 = 2014–2016
| college1 = Digital Seoul Culture <br>Arts University
| years1 = 2017
| clubs1 = [[Daejeon Korail FC|Daejeon Korail]]
| caps1 = 25
| goals1 = 11
| years2 = 2018–2019
| clubs2 = [[Ansan Greeners FC|Ansan Greeners]]
| caps2 = 62
| goals2 = 7
| years3 = 2020–2021
| clubs3 = [[Daejeon Hana Citizen]]
| caps3 = 54
| goals3 = 7
| years4 = 2022–2025
| clubs4 = [[Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors]]
| caps4 = 127
| goals4 = 6
| years5 = 2026–
| clubs5 = [[Zhejiang Professional F.C.|Zhejiang FC]]
| caps5 = 13
| goals5 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2023
| nationalteam1 = [[South Korea national under-23 football team|South Korea U23]]
| nationalcaps1 = 6{{efn-lg|Appearances as an overage player in [[Football at the Asian Games|Asian Games]]}}
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalteam2 = [[South Korea national football team|South Korea]]
| nationalcaps2 = 14
| nationalgoals2 = 1
| nationalyears2 = 2023–
| pcupdate = 24 May 2026
| ntupdate = 3 June 2026
| medaltemplates =
{{MedalSport|Men's [[Association football|football]]}}
{{Medal|Country|{{Fb|KOR}}}}
{{Medal|Competition|[[Asian Games]]}}
{{Medal|Gold|[[Football at the 2022 Asian Games – Men's tournament|2022 Hangzhou]]|}}
{{Medal|Competition|[[EAFF E-1 Football Championship|EAFF Championship]]}}
{{Medal|RU|[[2025 EAFF E-1 Football Championship|2025 South Korea]]|}}
}}
{{Infobox Korean name/auto|hangul=%박진섭|hanja=朴鎭燮}}

'''Park Jin-seob''' ({{Korean|박진섭}}; born 23 October 1995) is a South Korean professional [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Midfielder (association football)#Defensive midfielder|defensive midfielder]] or a [[Defender (association football)#Centre-back|centre-back]] for [[Chinese Super League]] club [[Zhejiang Professional F.C.|Zhejiang FC]] and the [[South Korea national football team|South Korea national team]].<ref name="Soccerway">{{Soccerway|jin-seop-park/478103}}</ref>

==Club career==
Park played as a footballer at all of his elementary, middle and high schools in [[Jeonju]], but had difficulty in entering university.<ref name="omn">{{cite news |url=https://star.ohmynews.com/NWS_Web/OhmyStar/at_pg.aspx?CNTN_CD=A0002944820 |script-title=ko:생애 첫 국가대표를 AG 와일드카드로, 박진섭 그는 누구인가? |publisher=OhmyNews |language=ko |date=2023-07-15 |access-date=2025-02-16}}</ref> After enrolling at the football club of Digital Seoul Culture Arts University narrowly, he became known as one of regional top goalscorers at the [[U-League (association football)|U-League]] in 2014 and 2016.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://post.naver.com/viewer/postView.nhn?volumeNo=7393975&memberNo=25549011 |script-title=ko:안 풀리면 올라간다, 대전코레일 박진섭 |website=Naver |publisher=S&B Company |language=ko |date=2017-04-27 |access-date=2025-02-16}}</ref> He prepared to join [[K League 2]] club [[Daejeon Hana Citizen|Daejeon Citizen]] by attracting club's manager [[Choi Moon-sik]] before the 2017 season, but the plan was cancelled due to Choi's dismissal.<ref name="kbs">{{cite news |url=https://news.kbs.co.kr/news/pc/view/view.do?ncd=7819452 |script-title=ko:6년 만에 ‘실업선수’에서 ‘국가대표’까지…박진섭의 인생역전 |publisher=KBS |language=ko |date=2023-11-16 |access-date=2025-02-16}}</ref> Instead, he moved to semi-professional club [[Daejeon Korail FC|Daejeon Korail]], playing at the [[Korea National League]] for a year.<ref name="kbs"/>

Park joined another K League 2 club [[Ansan Greeners FC|Ansan Greeners]] in 2018, becoming a professional player. He was the second top goalscorer at the [[2017 Korea National League]], but changed his role to a [[Midfielder#Defensive midfielder|defensive midfielder]] at Ansan.<ref name="kbs"/> His performance at midfield for two years received attention from Daejeon Citizen (reorganised as Daejeon Hana Citizen in 2020), and it gave him an offer.<ref name="kbs"/> He had had an ill feeling toward Daejeon due to the cancellation of his former agreement with it, but decided to trust it.<ref name="kbs"/> He captained the club in his first season, and was named in the [[K League Best XI|K League 2 Best XI]] the next year.<ref name="kbs"/> Afterwards, he could go to [[Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors]], his dream club located in his hometown Jeonju.<ref name="kbs"/>

Park joined Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors before the start of the 2022 season, challenging himself at the [[K League 1]]. When playing for Jeonbuk, he once again changed his role to a [[Defender (association football)#Centre-back|centre-back]]. His versatile talents led him to adapt quickly in the rearmost position.<ref name="omn"/> In his first season at Jeonbuk, he was selected for the [[K League Best XI|K League 1 Best XI]], and won the [[Korean FA Cup]].<ref name="omn"/> He was appointed captain of the club in the second half of the 2024 season,<ref>{{cite news |url=https://sports.news.nate.com/view/20240705n14566 |script-title=ko:'주장 박탈' 김진수 '문책성 교체' 아니었다…전북 "팀 분위기 쇄신 차원, 본인도 주장직 힘들어했다" |language=ko |publisher=Starnews Korea |website=Nate |date=2024-07-05 |access-date=2026-01-04}}</ref> but reproached himself for the decrease of his capability and poor results of the club at the end of the season.<ref name="24s">{{cite news |url=https://www.sportsseoul.com/news/read/1482401 |script-title=ko:눈물 쏟은 전북 '주장' 박진섭의 자기반성 "자존심 많이 상해, 내년엔 신인의 마음과 '초심'으로"[현장인터뷰] |language=ko |publisher=Sports Seoul |date=2024-12-09 |access-date=2026-01-04}}</ref> His team had finished 10th among 12 clubs at the league and avoided relegation after winning relegation play-offs.<ref name="24s"/> The next year, his ability bounced back under new manager [[Gus Poyet]], achieving the [[Double (association football)|Double]]. After winning the [[2025 Korea Cup]] final, he was selected as the Most Valuable Player of the tournament.<ref name="mvp"/>

On 3 January 2026, Park joined [[Chinese Super League]] club [[Zhejiang Professional F.C.|Zhejiang FC]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.dongqiudi.com/articles/5587752 |title=官方：韩国国脚、全北现代队长朴镇燮转会加盟浙江队 |publisher=Dongqiudi |date=2 January 2026 |access-date=2 January 2026 |language=zh}}</ref>

==International career==
Park played as an overage player for the [[South Korea national under-23 football team|South Korea under-23 team]] at the [[Football at the 2022 Asian Games – Men's tournament|2022 Asian Games]], winning a gold medal.

On 21 November 2023, Park made his senior international debut in a [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – AFC second round|FIFA World Cup qualifier]] against [[China national football team|China]], which ended in a 3–0 win. Two months later, he played as a substitute for [[South Korea national football team|South Korea]] in four matches of the [[2023 AFC Asian Cup]]. On 26 March 2024, he scored his first international goal in a 3–0 World Cup qualifier win over [[Thailand national football team|Thailand]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://kfa.or.kr/archive/player_record.php?search_val=%EB%B0%95%EC%A7%84%EC%84%AD |title=Park Jin-seob at Korea Football Association |publisher=KFA |language=ko |access-date=2024-02-07}}</ref>

Park was selected for the national team for the [[2026 FIFA World Cup]], becoming the only Chinese Super League player to enter the tournament.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://user.guancha.cn/wap/content?id=1661455 |title=世界杯有中国足球的事吗？有的，兄弟，有的 |lang=zh |publisher=Guancha |date=2026-05-31 |access-date=2026-06-04}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 24 May 2026}}<ref name="Soccerway"/>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
|-
!rowspan="2"|Club!!rowspan="2"|Season!!colspan="3"|League!!colspan="2"|Cup!!colspan="2"|Continental!!colspan="2"|Others!!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="1"|[[Daejeon Korail FC|Daejeon Korail]]
|[[2017 Korea National League|2017]]
|[[Korea National League]]
|25||11||2||1||colspan="2"|—||3{{efn|Appearances in [[Korea National League Championship]]}}||2||30||14
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Ansan Greeners FC|Ansan Greeners]]
|[[2018 K League 2|2018]]
|[[K League 2]]
|26||2||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||27||2
|-
|[[2019 K League 2|2019]]
|K League 2
|36||5||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||37||5
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!62!!7!!2!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!64!!7
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Daejeon Hana Citizen]]
|[[2020 K League 2|2020]]
|K League 2
|23||3||3||1||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|name=KLPO|Appearances in [[K League]] promotion-relegation play-offs}}||0||27||4
|-
|[[2021 K League 2|2021]]
|K League 2
|31||4||1||2||colspan="2"|—||4{{efn|name=KLPO}}||1||36||7
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!54!!7!!4!!3!!colspan="2"|—!!5!!1!!63!!11
|-
|rowspan="5"|[[Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors]]
|[[2022 K League 1|2022]]
|[[K League 1]]
|33||2||3||0||7{{efn|name=ACL|Appearances in [[AFC Champions League]]}}||0||colspan="2"|—||43||2
|-
|[[2023 K League 1|2023]]
|K League 1
|32||1||4||1||4{{efn|name=ACL}}||0||colspan="2"|—||40||2
|-
|[[2024 K League 1|2024]]
|K League 1
|27||0||0||0||4{{efn|name=ACL}}||0||2{{efn|name=KLPO}}||0||33||0
|-
|[[2025 K League 1|2025]]
|K League 1
|35||3||6||1||4{{efn|name=ACLT|Appearances in [[AFC Champions League Two]]}}||1||colspan="2"|—||45||5
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!127!!6!!13!!2!!19!!1!!2!!0!!161!!9
|-
|rowspan="1"|[[Zhejiang Professional F.C.|Zhejiang FC]]
|[[2026 Chinese Super League|2026]]
|[[Chinese Super League]]
|13||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||13||0
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!281!!31!!21!!6!!19!!1!!10!!3!!331!!41
|}

{{notelist}}

=== International ===
:''Scores and results list South Korea's goal tally first.''<ref name="NFT">{{cite web|url=https://www.national-football-teams.com/player/93132/Jin_Seob_Park.html|title=Park, Jin-seob|publisher=National Football Teams|access-date=26 March 2024}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" 
|+List of international goals scored by Park Jin-seob
|-
! No. !! Date !! Venue !! Opponent !! Score !! Result !! Competition
|-
| align="center"|1 || 26 March 2024 || [[Rajamangala Stadium]], [[Bangkok]], Thailand || {{fb|THA}} || align="center"|3–0 || align="center"|3–0 || [[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – AFC second round|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors'''
*[[K League 1]]: [[2025 K League 1|2025]]
*[[Korean FA Cup|Korea Cup]]: [[2022 Korean FA Cup|2022]], [[2025 Korea Cup|2025]]

'''South Korea U23'''
*[[Football at the Asian Games|Asian Games]]: [[Football at the 2022 Asian Games – Men's tournament|2022]]

'''South Korea'''
*[[EAFF E-1 Football Championship|EAFF Championship]] runner-up: [[2025 EAFF E-1 Football Championship|2025]]

'''Individual'''
*[[K League Best XI|K League 2 Best XI]]: [[2021 K League 2|2021]]
*[[K League Best XI|K League 1 Best XI]]: [[2022 K League 1|2022]], [[2025 K League 1|2025]]
*[[K League All-Star Game|K League All-Star]]: 2024, 2025<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.kleague.com/news_view.do?seq=90697&orderBy=seq&viewOption=album&page=6 |script-title=ko:팀 K리그 22명 선수단 확정.. 린가드, 기성용 부상으로 정호연, 오베르단 대체 선발 |language=ko |publisher=K League |date=2024-07-23 |access-date=2024-07-31}}</ref><ref>{{cite web |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2025/07/30/world/hybrid-friendlies/k-league-xi/newcastle/I1915494/lineups/ |title=K-League XI v Newcastle lineups & squad list |publisher=Soccerway |date=2025-07-30 |access-date=2025-07-31}}</ref>
*[[Korean FA Cup|Korea Cup]] Most Valuable Player: [[2025 Korea Cup|2025]]<ref name="mvp">{{cite news |url=https://sports.news.nate.com/view/20251206n08453 |script-title=ko:프로축구 전북, 광주 꺾고 2관왕…코리아컵 MVP 박진섭(종합) |website=Nate |publisher=Newsis |language=ko |date=2025-12-06 |access-date=2025-12-27}}</ref>

==Notes==
{{notelist-lg}}

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
*{{K League player}}

{{Zhejiang Professional F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
|title= South Korea squads
|bg= #C21E2B
|fg= white
|bordercolor= #0047A0
|list1=
{{South Korea squad 2023 AFC Asian Cup}}
{{South Korea squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Awards
| bg = gold
| fg = navy
| list =
{{2021 K League 2 Best XI}}
{{2022 K League 1 Best XI}}
{{2025 K League 1 Best XI}}
}}
{{Authority control}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Park, Jin-seob}}
[[Category:1995 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:South Korean men's footballers]]
[[Category:South Korea men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:South Korea men's under-23 international footballers]]
[[Category:South Korea men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Daejeon Korail FC players]]
[[Category:Ansan Greeners FC players]]
[[Category:Daejeon Hana Citizen players]]
[[Category:Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors players]]
[[Category:Korea National League players]]
[[Category:K League 1 players]]
[[Category:K League 2 players]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2022 Asian Games]]
[[Category:2023 AFC Asian Cup players]]
[[Category:Asian Games gold medalists for South Korea]]
[[Category:Asian Games footballers for South Korea]]
[[Category:Medalists at the 2022 Asian Games]]
[[Category:21st-century South Korean sportsmen]]
[[Category:Asian Games gold medalists in football]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]