{{Short description|Footballer (born 2001)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=December 2023}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Anis Ben Slimane
| image = FC Salzburg gegen Brøndby IF (Championsleague Play off Hinspiel 17. August 2021) 12.jpg
| caption = Ben Slimane with [[Brøndby IF|Brøndby]] in 2021
| full_name = Anis Ben Slimane<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.premierleague.com/news/3681595 |title=2023/24 Premier League squad lists |publisher=Premier League |date=13 September 2023 |access-date=15 September 2023}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|2001|3|16|df=y}}<ref name="FIFA 2022">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce44/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 – Squad list: Tunisia (TUN) |publisher=[[FIFA]] |page=29 |date=15 November 2022 |access-date=15 November 2022}}</ref>
| birth_place = [[Copenhagen]], Denmark
| height = 1.88 m<ref name="FIFA 2022"/>
| position = [[Midfielder]]
| currentclub = [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]]
| clubnumber = 20
| youthyears1 = 2008
| youthclubs1 = BK Vestia
| youthyears2 = 2008–2010
| youthclubs2 = [[Kjøbenhavns Boldklub|KB]]
| youthyears3 = 2010–2011
| youthclubs3 = [[FA 2000]]
| youthyears4 = 2011
| youthclubs4 = [[Herfølge Boldklub|Herfølge]]
| youthyears5 = 2011–2012
| youthclubs5 = [[Boldklubben af 1893|B.93]]
| youthyears6 = 2012–2014
| youthclubs6 = [[Brøndby IF|Brøndby]]
| youthyears7 = 2014–2015
| youthclubs7 = [[Kjøbenhavns Boldklub|KB]]
| youthyears8 = 2015
| youthclubs8 = [[Lyngby Boldklub|Lyngby]]
| youthyears9 = 2015–2018
| youthclubs9 = [[Akademisk Boldklub|AB]]
| years1 = 2017–2019
| clubs1 = [[Akademisk Boldklub|AB]]
| caps1 = 18
| goals1 = 2
| years2 = 2020–2023
| clubs2 = [[Brøndby IF|Brøndby]]
| caps2 = 104
| goals2 = 9
| years3 = 2023–2025
| clubs3 = [[Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United]]
| caps3 = 18
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2024–2025
| clubs4 = → [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]] (loan)
| caps4 = 18
| goals4 = 2
| years5 = 2025–
| clubs5 = [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]]
| caps5 = 37
| goals5 = 5
| nationalyears1 = 2019
| nationalteam1 = [[Denmark national under-19 football team|Denmark U19]]
| nationalcaps1 = 9
| nationalgoals1 = 2
| nationalyears2 = 2019
| nationalteam2 = [[Tunisia national under-20 football team|Tunisia U20]]
| nationalcaps2 = 3
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2020–
| nationalteam3 = [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]]
| nationalcaps3 = 39
| nationalgoals3 = 4
| club-update = 12:31, 7 May 2026 (UTC)
| nationalteam-update = 31 March 2026
}}

'''Anis Ben Slimane''' ({{langx|ar|أَنِيس بْن سُلَيْمَان}}; born 16 March 2001) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[midfielder]] for {{English football updater|NorwichC}} club [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]]. Born in Denmark, he plays for the [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia national team]].

Ben Slimane had a tumultuous youth career, playing for eight different clubs in twelve years, but finally settled at [[Akademisk Boldklub|AB]] where he made his senior debut in 2018. The following season, he departed for [[Brøndby IF|Brøndby]] and was included in the U19-squad, but he would garner break-out attention in the second half of the 2019–20 season as he established himself as part of the first team. At Brøndby, he was part of the [[Danish Superliga]]-winning team in [[2020–21 Danish Superliga|2020–21]]. After having made more than 100 appearances for the club, he departed for [[Premier League]] club [[Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United]] in 2023.

Born in Denmark, Ben Slimane has [[Multiple citizenship|dual citizenship]] and made appearances for both [[Denmark national under-19 football team|Denmark U19]] and [[Tunisia national under-20 football team|Tunisia U20]]. He represents Tunisia at senior international level, and has played at the [[2022 FIFA World Cup]].

==Club career==
===Early career===
Ben Slimane was born in [[Copenhagen]] and lived in the [[Vesterbro, Copenhagen|Vesterbro]] neighbourhood during his youth.<ref name="laeranisatkende">{{cite web |title=Lær Anis Slimane at kende – brondby.com |url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fETxo8uHY-E |website=youtube.com |publisher=[[Brøndby IF]] |accessdate=24 April 2020}}</ref> He started playing for the lower levels of Vesterbro club BK Vestia at age 7, which was the club located most closely to his home.<ref name="laeranisatkende" /> After a few months he moved to the [[Kjøbenhavns Boldklub|KB]] academy due to his classmate playing there; a team his classmate's father also coached.<ref name="slimane060220" /> Later, Ben Slimane and his classmate signed with the [[FA 2000]] academy, where they were joined by some other talented players. Because some clubs were hesitant to create first teams and second teams, Slimane moved to different clubs in Copenhagen, who were willing to commit to youth football at a higher level.<ref name="laeranisatkende" /> The following year, him and his classmate moved to [[Herfølge Boldklub]], where they were for a short period, before moving first to [[Boldklubben af 1893|B.93]], where they reunited with the group of talented youth players from FA 2000.<ref name="laeranisatkende" /> During his time at B.93, Ben Slimane played in a UEFA European Club Championship tournament, where he impressed and therefore signed with the [[Brøndby IF]] academy.<ref name="slimane060220">{{cite web |title=Anis Slimane: Jeg havde en masse bump på vejen |url=https://brondby.com/nyhed/2020/02/06/anis-slimane-jeg-havde-en-masse-bump-paa-vejen |website=brondby.com |publisher=[[Brøndby IF]] |accessdate=24 April 2020 |date=6 February 2020}}</ref>

Ben Slimane was twelve years old when he moved to Brøndby. He played for their academy teams for one and a half years before moving back to play for [[Kjøbenhavns Boldklub|KB]] at the under-13 level because of excessive travelling time to Brøndby after he and his family had moved to [[Høje Gladsaxe]].<ref name="slimane060220" /> Ben Slimane's second stint at KB was, however, unsuccessful, and he, therefore, began to play for [[Lyngby Boldklub]].<ref name="laeranisatkende" /> He played in Lyngby's youth for six months before being signed by local club [[Akademisk Boldklub]] (AB) at under-14 level, where he once again reunited with his old classmates. Ben Slimane stayed at AB for four years, ending his [[Journeyman (sports)|journeyman]] youth career.<ref name="slimane060220" /> There, he played for four years, breaking into the first team during his final time at the club. In an interview with the [[Brøndby IF]] website, Ben Slimane described how he was among Denmark's greatest youth football prospects during his first years of playing, but those different circumstances meant that he had to fight for his breakthrough into professional football. During this period, he was close to retiring from football but his family and friends' support helped him through the difficult periods.<ref>{{cite web |last1=Helbo |first1=Benjamin Alexander |title=18-årigt Brøndby-talent var tæt på karrierestop |url=https://www.bold.dk/fodbold/nyheder/18-aarigt-broendby-talent-var-taet-paa-karrierestop/ |website=bold.dk |publisher=bold.dk |accessdate=24 April 2020 |date=6 February 2020}}</ref> During one summer, where he played in AB's youth academy, he experienced a large [[growth spurt]] in which he grew 15&nbsp;cm, which enabled him to become more dominant physically and helped him develop as a player.<ref name="laeranisatkende" /><ref name="slimane060220" />

In January 2018, Ben Slimane left on a one-week trial with German [[Bundesliga]] club [[SC Freiburg]].<ref>{{cite web |last1=Nøhr |first1=Mikkel |title=Ungt AB-talent testes i Freiburg |url=https://www.bold.dk/fodbold/nyheder/ungt-ab-talent-testes-i-freiburg/ |website=bold.dk |publisher=bold.dk |accessdate=24 April 2020 |date=18 January 2018}}</ref> He made his first-team debut for AB on 7 April 2018 in a 2–1 home win over [[IF Lyseng Fodbold|IF Lyseng]], coming on as an 80th-minute substitute for [[Nichlas Rohde]].<ref>{{cite web |title=Sen sejr over Lyseng |url=https://www.ab-fodbold.dk/nyheder/2-division/180407sen-sejr-mod-lyseng/ |website=ab-fodbold.dk |publisher=[[Akademisk Boldklub]] |accessdate=24 April 2020 |date=7 April 2018|archive-url=http://web.archive.org/web/20180501004959/https://www.ab-fodbold.dk/nyheder/2-division/180407sen-sejr-mod-lyseng/|archive-date=2018-05-01}}</ref> Slimane made a total of 18 league appearances for AB in which he scored two goals.<ref name="SW" />

===Brøndby===
====2019–20====
Ben Slimane joined [[Brøndby IF]] at under-19 level in June 2019, after he had impressed for the [[Akademisk Boldklub|AB]] first-team in the [[Danish 2nd Division]], the third tier of the Danish football pyramid.<ref name="Slimane Transfer Brondby">{{cite web | url=https://www.bold.dk/fodbold/nyheder/broendby-henter-midtbanemand-i-ab/ | title=Brøndby henter midtbanemand i AB | publisher=Bold | work=bold.dk | date=19 June 2019 | accessdate=17 February 2020}}</ref> In January 2020, he was selected to participate in Brøndby's first-team training camp in Portugal,<ref>{{cite web |title=Anis Ben Slimane skal træne med førsteholdet i Brøndby frem til forårsstart |url=https://3point.dk/anis-ben-slimane-skal-traene-med-foersteholdet-i-broendby-frem-til-saesonstart/ |website=3point.dk |publisher=3point |accessdate=24 April 2020 |date=9 January 2020}}</ref> where he made his first appearance for the senior side in a [[Exhibition game|pre-season friendly]] against Swedish side [[IFK Norrköping]], impressing in front of scouts from [[Arsenal F.C.|Arsenal]] and [[Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United]].<ref name="preseasonfriendly">{{cite web |last1=Dehn |first1=Anders |title=Storklubber så testkamp: De holdt nok øje med Brøndby-talent |url=https://www.tipsbladet.dk/nyhed/superliga/storklubber-saa-testkamp-de-holdt-nok-oeje-med-broendby-talent |website=tipsbladet.dk |publisher=[[Tipsbladet]] |accessdate=24 April 2020 |date=31 January 2020}}</ref>

On 16 February 2020, Ben Slimane made his professional debut in an away match against [[Odense Boldklub|OB]] in the [[Danish Superliga]] as a starter, which Brøndby won 2–0.<ref name="Brondby Debut">{{cite web | url=https://brondby.com/nyhed/2020/02/16/slimane-om-debut-det-var-en-stor-dag-for-mig | title=Slimane om debut: Det var en stor dag for mig | publisher=Brøndby IF | work=brondby.com | date=16 February 2020 | accessdate=17 February 2020}}</ref><ref name="Tipsbladet Debut">{{cite web | url=https://www.tipsbladet.dk/nyhed/superliga/broendbyfans-gav-slimane-en-uforglemmelig-debut-jeg-fik-kaempe-kuldegysninger | title=Brøndbyfans gav Slimane en uforglemmelig debut: Jeg fik kæmpe kuldegysninger | publisher=Tipsbladet | work=tipsbladet.dk | date=17 February 2020 | accessdate=18 February 2020}}</ref> The following week, he made his first assist, a cross into the box which [[Samuel Mráz]] slotted home in a 3–2 loss to [[AaB Fodbold|AaB]].<ref>{{cite web | url=https://ekstrabladet.dk/sport/fodbold/dansk_fodbold/superligaen/aab/slaar-broendby-i-kaempe-drama/8016287 | title=Slår Brøndby i kæmpe drama | publisher=Ekstra Bladet | work=ekstrabladet.dk | date=23 February 2020 | accessdate=24 February 2020}}</ref> On 8 March 2020, he scored his first goal for Brøndby in a 2–2 draw away against [[FC Nordsjælland]];<ref>{{cite web |last1=Wehlast |first1=Mads Glenn |title=Brøndby brød Nordsjællands stime |url=https://ekstrabladet.dk/sport/fodbold/dansk_fodbold/superligaen/broendby/broendby-broed-nordsjaellands-stime/8038215 |website=ekstrabladet.dk |publisher=Ekstra Bladet |date=8 March 2020 |accessdate=8 March 2020}}</ref> a match played [[Behind closed doors (sport)|behind closed doors]] at [[Right to Dream Park]] due to guidelines implemented by Danish authorities during the [[COVID-19 pandemic in Denmark|COVID-19 pandemic]].<ref>{{cite web |title=Fodboldkampe den kommende runde |url=https://divisionsforeningen.dk/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Fodboldkampe-den-kommende-runde-.pdf |website=divisionsforeningen.dk |publisher=Divisionsforeningen |accessdate=8 March 2020}}</ref> After the match, Ben Slimane expressed his regret in not being able to celebrate his goal in front of fans.<ref>{{cite web |last1=Hammeken |first1=Jesper |title=Anis Ben Slimane: Jeg ville gerne have fejret målet med fansene |url=https://3point.dk/anis-ben-slimane-jeg-ville-gerne-have-fejret-maalet-med-fansene/ |website=3point.dk |publisher=3point |date=8 March 2020 |accessdate=8 March 2020}}</ref>

====2020–21: Danish Superliga champions====
On 3 July 2020, Ben Slimane signed a new contract with Brøndby, keeping him at the club until 2024.<ref>{{cite web |title=Brøndby IF forlænger med Jobbe og Anis |url=https://brondby.com/nyhed/2020/07/03/broendby-if-forlaenger-med-jobbe-og-anis |website=brondby.com |publisher=[[Brøndby IF]] |accessdate=3 July 2020 |date=3 July 2020}}</ref> After struggling to find his way to the starting lineup during the first half of the [[2020–21 Danish Superliga|2020–21 season]], he scored the winning goal on 13 December against [[SønderjyskE Fodbold|SønderjyskE]] after coming on as a substitute for [[Simon Hedlund]] in the 77th minute.<ref>{{cite web |title=Brøndby vs. SønderjyskE - 13 December 2020 |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2020/12/13/denmark/superliga/brondby-if/sonderjyske/3322196/ |website=Soccerway |publisher=Perform Group |access-date=13 December 2020}}</ref><ref>{{cite news |title=Superliga-søndag: Brøndby nedkæmper Sønderjyske og stryger til tops |url=https://www.dr.dk/sporten/fodbold/superliga/superliga-soendag-broendby-nedkaemper-soenderjyske-og-stryger-til-tops |access-date=13 December 2020 |work=[[DR (broadcaster)|DR]] |date=13 December 2020 |language=Danish |quote=Anden halvleg så længe ud til at slutte uden mål, men i kampens afslutning dukkede Anis Ben Slimane op og sikrede Brøndby fuld gevinst.}}</ref>

On 1 February 2021, Ben Slimane was fined and temporarily withdrawn from the Brøndby squad after breaking coronavirus quarantine guidelines. According to him, he picked up a female friend at a party, and the police showed up.<ref>{{cite news |title=Brøndby-profil overtræder forsamlingsforbud til fest |url=https://sn.dk/Sport/Broendby-profil-overtraeder-forsamlingsforbud-til-fest/artikel/1406916 |work=sn.dk |date=1 February 2021 |language=da}}</ref> He subsequently tested negative for COVID-19 twice and was included in the first team again on 3 February.<ref>{{cite news |last=Dalgård |first=Jonas |title=Corona-fri: BIF-midt træner igen efter fest |url=https://www.bold.dk/fodbold/nyheder/corona-fri-bif-midt-traener-igen-efter-fest/ |work=bold.dk |date=3 February 2021 |language=da}}</ref> He made his return to the pitch on 7 February as a starter in a 1–1 home draw against AaB.<ref>{{cite web |title=Brøndby vs. AaB - 7 February 2021 |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2021/02/07/denmark/superliga/brondby-if/aalborg-bk/3322214/ |website=Soccerway |access-date=15 February 2021}}</ref>

On 24 May, Ben Slimane scored Brøndby's second goal in their 2–0 win over Nordsjælland. The result confirmed Brøndby as Danish Superliga champions for the first time in 16 years.<ref name="BrøSup"/>

====2021–22====
Ben Slimane made his European debut on 17 August 2021 in the [[UEFA Champions League]] play-off first leg against [[FC Red Bull Salzburg|Red Bull Salzburg]], which ended in a 2–1 loss.<ref>{{cite web |title=Salzburg vs. Brøndby - 17 August 2021 |url=https://int.soccerway.com/matches/2021/08/17/europe/uefa-champions-league/fc-red-bull-salzburg/brondby-if/3603231/ |website=Soccerway |access-date=29 August 2021}}</ref><ref>{{cite news |last1=Karlsen |first1=Nanna Møller |title=Bravt kæmpende Brøndby slap fra Salzburg med snævert nederlag {{!}} 3point.dk |url=https://3point.dk/nyheder/bravt-kaempende-brondby-slap-fra-salzburg-med-snaevert-nederlag |work=3point.dk |date=17 August 2021 |language=da}}</ref> He scored his first goal of the season on 29 August as Brøndby beat Midtjylland 2–0 – their first win of the season.<ref>{{cite news |title=Blå-gul triumf: Brøndby slår FCM og sikrer sig sæsonens første sejr |url=https://www.tv3sport.dk/sport/fodbold/nyheder/bla-gul-triumf-brondby-slar-fcm-og-sikrer-sig-saesonens-forste-sejr |work=TV3 SPORT |date=29 August 2021 |language=da}}</ref>

===Sheffield United===
On 13 July 2023, Ben Slimane signed for recently promoted [[Premier League]] club [[Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United]] on a three-year contract, taking the number 25 jersey.<ref>{{cite press release |title=Anis is a Blade |url=https://www.sufc.co.uk/news/2023/july/13/anis-is-a-blade/ |website=Sheffield United FC |date=13 July 2023}}</ref> It was reported that the club had triggered his release clause which saw them pay under £1 million up front, with performance-related add-ons potentially increasing the transfer fee.<ref>{{cite news |last1=Wobschall |first1=Leon |title=New Sheffield United signing and Tunisian international Anis Ben Slimane reveals why he joined the Premier League club from Danish outfit Brondby |url=https://www.yorkshirepost.co.uk/sport/football/sheffield-united/new-sheffield-united-signing-and-tunisian-international-anis-ben-slimane-reveals-why-he-joined-the-premier-league-club-from-danish-outfit-brondby-4217492 |access-date=13 August 2023 |work=The Yorkshire Post |date=13 July 2023}}</ref> On 12 August, he made his competitive debut for the Blades in a 1–0 league loss against [[Crystal Palace F.C.|Crystal Palace]].<ref>{{cite news |title=Sheffield United 0–1 Crystal Palace: Odsonne Edouard scores winner for dominant Eagles |url=https://www.skysports.com/football/sheffield-united-vs-crystal-palace/report/482597 |access-date=13 August 2023 |work=Sky Sports |date=12 August 2023 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20230813093803/https://www.skysports.com/football/sheffield-united-vs-crystal-palace/report/482597 |archive-date=13 August 2023}}</ref> He made 15 league appearances during the season as the club was relegated back to the [[EFL Championship]] after one year in the top flight.<ref name="SW" /><ref>{{cite news |title=Newcastle United 5–1 Sheffield United: Blades relegated after being thrashed by Magpies |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/68862604 |access-date=14 January 2025 |work=BBC Sport |date=26 April 2024 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20240511172446/https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/68862604 |archive-date=11 May 2024}}</ref>

Ben Slimane scored his first goal for Sheffield United on 13 August 2024 in an [[EFL Cup]] tie against [[Wrexham F.C.|Wrexham]].<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/live/c39kny38dxjt|title=Sheffield United 4-2 Wrexham|publisher=[[BBC]] |date=13 August 2024|access-date=17 August 2024}}</ref>

===Norwich City===
On 30 August 2024, Ben Slimane signed with [[EFL Championship]] club [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]] on a season-long loan, with an option to make the move permanent upon the completion of certain criteria.<ref>{{cite web |title=City sign Slimane on season-long loan |url=https://www.canaries.co.uk/content/city-sign-slimane-on-season-long-loan |website=Norwich City |access-date=23 October 2024 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20240925124118/https://www.canaries.co.uk/content/city-sign-slimane-on-season-long-loan |archive-date=25 September 2024 |date=30 August 2024}}</ref> The following day, he made his competitive debut for the Canaries, replacing [[Forson Amankwah]] at half-time in a 1–0 league win away over [[Coventry City F.C.|Coventry City]].<ref>{{cite news |title=Coventry City 0-1 Norwich City: Borja Sainz gives Canaries victory |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/live/cdxljgkk7qvt |access-date=23 October 2024 |work=BBC Sport |date=31 August 2024 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20240924061234/https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/live/cdxljgkk7qvt |archive-date=24 September 2024}}</ref> He scored his first goal for the club on 26 November in a dominant 6–1 league victory over [[Plymouth Argyle F.C.|Plymouth Argyle]], managed by [[Wayne Rooney]].<ref>{{cite news |last1=Pilnick |first1=Brent |title=Norwich City 6–1 Plymouth Argyle: Borja Sainz scores hat-trick as Wayne Rooney suffers record loss |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/c0enj14lv12t |access-date=14 January 2025 |work=BBC Sport |date=26 November 2024 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20241203105820/https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/live/c0enj14lv12t |archive-date=3 December 2024}}</ref>

On 14 January 2025, Norwich City activated a clause in Ben Slimane's loan agreement, making his move from [[Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United]] permanent for an undisclosed fee. He signed a long-term contract after contributing two goals in 21 league appearances during his loan spell.<ref>{{cite news |title=Anis Ben Slimane: Norwich City sign Sheffield United player for undisclosed fee |url=https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/ce8ydyedje1o |access-date=14 January 2025 |work=BBC Sport |date=13 January 2025 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20250114144946/https://www.bbc.com/sport/football/articles/ce8ydyedje1o |archive-date=14 January 2025}}</ref>

==International career==
Ben Slimane has represented the [[Denmark national under-19 football team]],<ref name="Denmark U19">{{cite web | url=https://brondby.com/nyhed/2019/08/28/masterclass-talenter-udtaget-til-u19-landsholdet | title=Masterclass-talenter udtaget til U19-landsholdet | publisher=Brøndby IF | work=brondby.com | date=28 August 2019 | accessdate=17 February 2020}}</ref> as well as the [[Tunisia national under-20 football team]].<ref name="Tunisia Debut">{{cite web | url=https://3point.dk/niels-frederiksen-anis-ben-slimane-skal-snuse-til-foersteholdet/ | title=Niels Frederiksen: Anis Ben Slimane skal snuse til førsteholdet | publisher=3point | work=3point.dk | date=4 December 2019 | accessdate=18 February 2020 | archive-date=16 May 2020 | archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200516035923/https://3point.dk/niels-frederiksen-anis-ben-slimane-skal-snuse-til-foersteholdet/ | url-status=dead }}</ref>

On 1 October 2020, Ben Slimane was called up to [[Mondher Kebaier]]'s senior [[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]] squad for the two [[Exhibition game#Association football|friendlies]] against [[Sudan national football team|Sudan]] and [[Nigeria national football team|Nigeria]].<ref>{{cite web |last1=Hoffskov |first1=Ole |title=Tunesien udtager Anis Ben Slimane - men Brøndby-spilleren er i tænkeboks 
|url=https://www.tipsbladet.dk/nyhed/superliga/tunesien-udtager-anis-ben-slimane-men-broendby-spilleren-er-i-taenkeboks |publisher=[[Tipsbladet]] |accessdate=6 October 2020 |language=Danish |date=1 October 2020}}</ref> He scored in his debut, the third goal in a 3–0 win over Sudan.<ref>{{cite web |last1=Risager |first1=Victor |title=Anis Ben Slimane scorede i landsholdsdebut for Tunesien |url=https://www.tipsbladet.dk/nyhed/landshold/anis-ben-slimane-scorede-i-landsholdsdebut-tunesien |website=tipsbladet.dk |publisher=[[Tipsbladet]] |accessdate=9 October 2020 |language=Danish |date=9 October 2020}}</ref>

Ben Slimane was called up to the [[2022 FIFA World Cup squads#Tunisia|Tunisia squad]] for the [[2022 FIFA World Cup|2022 World Cup]] in Qatar on 14 November 2022.<ref>{{cite web |title=Anis Slimane udtaget til VM med tunesisk landshold |url=https://brondby.com/nyheder/herrer/2022/november/anis-slimane-udtaget-til-vm-med-tunesisk-landshold |website=Brøndby IF |access-date=30 November 2022 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20221114194758/https://brondby.com/nyheder/herrer/2022/november/anis-slimane-udtaget-til-vm-med-tunesisk-landshold |archive-date=14 November 2022 |language=da |date=14 November 2022 |url-status=live}}</ref> On 22 November 2022, he made his debut in a major tournament in Tunisia's opening World Cup game against his country of birth, [[Denmark national football team|Denmark]], starting in the 0–0 draw at [[Education City Stadium]].<ref>{{cite web |title=Denmark 0–0 Tunisia |url=https://www.fifa.com/fifaplus/en/match-centre/match/17/255711/285063/400235466 |website=FIFA |access-date=22 November 2022 |date=22 November 2022}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 2 May 2026}}<ref name="SW" />

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
|-
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National cup{{efn|Includes [[Danish Cup]], [[FA Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|League cup{{efn|Includes [[EFL Cup]]}}
!colspan="2"|Europe
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Akademisk Boldklub|AB]] 
|[[2017–18 Danish 2nd Division|2017–18]]
|[[Danish 2nd Division]]
|2||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||2||0
|-
|[[2018–19 Danish 2nd Divisions|2018–19]] 
|Danish 2nd Division
|16||2||1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||17||2
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!18!!2!!1!!0!!colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—!!19!!2
|-
|rowspan="5"|[[Brøndby IF|Brøndby]]
|[[2019–20 Brøndby IF season|2019–20]]<ref name="SW">{{cite web|title=A. Slimane|url=https://int.soccerway.com/players/anis-ben-slimane/643304/|website=Soccerway|accessdate=17 February 2020}}</ref>
|[[Danish Superliga]]
|16||1||0||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||16||1
|-
|[[2020–21 Brøndby IF season|2020–21]]<ref name="SW" />
|Danish Superliga
|27||3||2||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||29||3
|-
|[[2021–22 Brøndby IF season|2021–22]]<ref name="SW" />
|Danish Superliga
|31||2||3||0||colspan="2"|—||8{{efn|Two appearances in [[UEFA Champions League]], six appearances in [[UEFA Europa League]]}}||0||42||2
|-
|[[2022–23 Brøndby IF season|2022–23]]<ref name="SW" />
|Danish Superliga
|30||3||1||0||colspan="2"|—||3{{efn|name=UECL|Appearances in [[UEFA Europa Conference League]]}}||0||34||3
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!104!!9!!6!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!11!!0!!121!!9
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Sheffield United F.C.|Sheffield United]]
|[[2023–24 Sheffield United F.C. season|2023–24]]
|[[Premier League]]
|15||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||15||0
|-
|[[2024–25 Sheffield United F.C. season|2024–25]]
|[[EFL Championship|Championship]]
|3||0||0||0||1||1||colspan="2"|—||4||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!18!!0!!0!!0!!1!!1!!colspan="2"|—!!19!!1
|-
|[[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]] (loan)
|[[2024–25 Norwich City F.C. season|2024–25]]
|Championship
|18||2||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||18||2
|-
|rowspan="3"|Norwich City
|[[2024–25 Norwich City F.C. season|2024–25]]
|Championship
|15||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||15||0
|-
|[[2025–26 Norwich City F.C. season|2025–26]]
|Championship
|22||5||3||0||1||0||colspan="2"|—||26||5
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!37!!5!!3!!0!!1!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!41!!5
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!195!!18!!10!!0!!2!!1!!11!!0!!218!!19
|}

{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 31 March 2026}}<ref name="NFT">{{NFT player|79738|access-date=25 March 2021}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="7"|[[Tunisia national football team|Tunisia]]
|2020||4||1
|-
|2021||10||3
|-
|2022||12||0
|-
|2023||3||0
|-
|2024||5||0
|-
|2025||4||0
|-
|2026||1||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!39!!4
|}

{{updated|match played 31 March 2026}}
:''Scores and results list Tunisia's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Ben Slimane goal.''<ref name="NFT"/>

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Anis Ben Slimane
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
| align="center"|1 || 9 October 2020 || [[Stade Olympique de Radès]], Tunis, Tunisia || {{fb|SUD}} || align="center"|3–0 || align="center"|3–0 || [[Exhibition game#Association football|Friendly]]
|-
| align="center"|2 || 25 March 2021 || [[Martyrs of February Stadium]], Benghazi, Libya || {{fb|LBY}} || align="center"|4–2 || align="center"|5–2 || [[2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualification Group J|2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualification]]
|-
| align="center"|3 || 15 June 2021 || [[Stade Olympique de Radès]], Tunis, Tunisia || {{fb|MLI}} || align="center"|1–0 || align="center"|1–0 || [[Exhibition game#Association football|Friendly]]
|-
| align="center"|4 || 7 September 2021 || [[Levy Mwanawasa Stadium]], Ndola, Zambia || {{fb|ZAM}} || align="center"|2–0 || align="center"|2–0 || [[2022 FIFA World Cup qualification – CAF second round|2022 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Brøndby'''
* [[Danish Superliga]]: [[2020–21 Danish Superliga|2020–21]]<ref name="BrøSup">{{cite web|url=https://uk.sports.yahoo.com/news/soccer-brondby-beat-nordsjaelland-clinch-173325878.html|title=Soccer-Brondby beat Nordsjaelland to clinch Danish league title|website=Yahoo Sports|agency=Reuters|date=24 May 2021|accessdate=23 July 2024|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20211203161806/https://uk.sports.yahoo.com/news/soccer-brondby-beat-nordsjaelland-clinch-173325878.html|archive-date=3 December 2021|url-status=live}}</ref>
'''Tunisia'''
*[[Kirin Cup Soccer]]: [[2022 Kirin Cup Soccer|2022]]

==References==
{{reflist}}

==External links==
{{Commons category}}
*{{DBU}}
* {{Soccerway}}
* [https://www.bold.dk/fodbold/danmark/superligaen/broendby-if/anis-ben-slimane/ Anis Ben Slimane] at bold.dk

{{Norwich City F.C. squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title=  Tunisia squads
| bg = #E70013
| fg = white
| bordercolor = white
| list1 =
{{Tunisia squad 2021 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{Tunisia squad 2022 FIFA World Cup}}
{{Tunisia squad 2023 Africa Cup of Nations}}
{{Tunisia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Ben Slimane, Anis}}
[[Category:2001 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Copenhagen]]
[[Category:Tunisian men's footballers]]
[[Category:21st-century Tunisian sportsmen]]
[[Category:Tunisia men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Danish men's footballers]]
[[Category:Denmark men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Danish people of Tunisian descent]]
[[Category:Kjøbenhavns Boldklub players]]
[[Category:FA 2000 players]]
[[Category:Herfølge Boldklub players]]
[[Category:Boldklubben af 1893 players]]
[[Category:Lyngby Boldklub players]]
[[Category:Akademisk Boldklub players]]
[[Category:Brøndby IF players]]
[[Category:Sheffield United F.C. players]]
[[Category:Danish 2nd Division players]]
[[Category:Danish Superliga players]]
[[Category:Premier League players]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:2021 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:2022 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:2023 Africa Cup of Nations players]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in England]]
[[Category:21st-century Danish sportsmen]]
[[Category:Norwich City F.C. players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]