{{short description|New Zealand footballer}}
{{Other people||Tommy Smith (disambiguation){{!}}Tommy Smith}}
{{Use British English|date=February 2013}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=February 2020}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Tommy Smith
| image = Tommy Smith March 2024.jpg
| caption = Smith in 2024
| full_name = Thomas Jefferson Smith<ref name="List of Players under Written Contract Registered Between 1 January 2010 and 31 January 2010">{{Cite web |url=http://www.thefa.com/TheFA/RulesandRegulations/~/media/Files/PDF/TheFA/PlayerRegistrations/January%202010.ashx/January%202010.pdf |title=List of Players under Written Contract Registered Between 1 January 2010 and 31 January 2010 |publisher=[[The Football Association]] |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://wayback.archive-it.org/all/20120428045432/http://www.thefa.com/TheFA/RulesandRegulations/~/media/Files/PDF/TheFA/PlayerRegistrations/January%202010.ashx/January%202010.pdf |archive-date=28 April 2012 |access-date=7 February 2010}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1990|03|31|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Macclesfield]], England
| height = 1.88 m<ref name="Soccerway" />
| position = [[Centre-back]]
| currentclub = [[Braintree Town F.C.|Braintree Town]]
| clubnumber = 15
| youthyears1 = 
| youthclubs1 = [[Crewe Alexandra F.C.|Crewe Alexandra]]
| youthyears2 = –2006
| youthclubs2 = [[North Shore United AFC|North Shore United]]
| youthyears3 = 2006–2007
| youthclubs3 = [[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]]
| years1 = 2007–2018
| clubs1 = [[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]]
| caps1 = 247
| goals1 = 21
| years2 = 2008
| clubs2 = → [[Stevenage F.C.|Stevenage Borough]] (loan)
| caps2 = 15
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2010
| clubs3 = → [[Brentford F.C.|Brentford]] (loan)
| caps3 = 8
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2011
| clubs4 = → [[Colchester United F.C.|Colchester United]] (loan)
| caps4 = 6
| goals4 = 0
| years5 = 2018–2019
| clubs5 = [[Colorado Rapids]]
| caps5 = 60
| goals5 = 7
| clubs6 = [[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]]
| caps6 = 0
| goals6 = 0
| years6 = 2020
| years7 = 2020–2023
| clubs7 = [[Colchester United F.C.|Colchester United]]
| caps7 = 88
| goals7 = 3
| years8 = 2023–2024
| clubs8 = [[Milton Keynes Dons F.C.|Milton Keynes Dons]]
| caps8 = 10
| goals8 = 0
| years9 = 2024
| clubs9 = [[Macarthur FC]]
| caps9 = 8
| goals9 = 1
| years10 = 2024–2025
| clubs10 = [[Auckland FC]]
| caps10 = 25
| goals10 = 0
| years11 = 2025–
| clubs11 = [[Braintree Town F.C.|Braintree Town]]
| caps11 = 14
| goals11 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2007
| nationalteam1 = [[England national under-17 football team|England U17]]
| nationalcaps1 = 1
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2008
| nationalteam2 = [[England national under-18 football team|England U18]]
| nationalcaps2 = 3
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| nationalyears3 = 2012
| nationalteam3 = [[New Zealand national under-23 football team|New Zealand U23]]
| nationalcaps3 = 3
| nationalgoals3 = 0
| nationalyears4 = 2010–
| nationalteam4 = [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]]
| nationalcaps4 = 56
| nationalgoals4 = 2
| club-update = 16 March 2026
| nationalteam-update = 20:04, 30 September 2024 (UTC)
| medaltemplates = {{MedalSport|Men's [[association football|football]]}}
{{MedalCountry|{{fb|NZ}}}}
{{MedalCompetition|[[OFC Men's Nations Cup|OFC Nations Cup]]}}
{{Medal|W|[[2024 OFC Men's Nations Cup|2024 Fiji/Vanuatu]]|}}
{{Medal|3rd|[[2012 OFC Nations Cup|2012 Solomon Islands]]|}}
}}

'''Thomas Jefferson Smith''' (born 31 March 1990) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Defender (association football)|defender]] for {{English football updater|BraintrT}} club [[Braintree Town F.C.|Braintree Town]]. Born in England, he plays for the [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand national team]].

A graduate of the [[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]] academy, he plays primarily as a [[centre back]], but can also play as a [[left back]]. Smith spent 11 years at Ipswich, making over 240 appearances before leaving in January 2018 to join MLS side [[Colorado Rapids]]. He later joined [[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]] in February 2020 after being released by Colorado. Later in 2020, he signed for [[Colchester United F.C.|Colchester United]].

==Club career==
===Ipswich Town===
Born in [[Macclesfield]], Cheshire, Smith is a product of the [[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]] academy. He won the club's Young Player of the Year award for the [[2006–07 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2006–07]] season.<ref name=YPotY/> He signed a three-year professional contract in August 2007.<ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20080226160826/http://www.itfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10272~1087584%2C00.html Tommy signs up], [[Ipswich Town F.C.]]</ref> He was on the shortlist for the 2008 Wickes Young Apprentice Trophy, given to the best youth player in the [[Football League Championship|Championship]],<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.walesonline.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/acheampong-short-listed-top-award-2204661 |title=Acheampong is short-listed for top award |last=WalesOnline |date=24 January 2008 |website=walesonline |access-date=21 February 2020}}</ref><ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20080127124223/http://www.itfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10272~1224301%2C00.html Tommy up for Award], [[Ipswich Town F.C.]]</ref> but [[Mark Beevers]] won the award.<ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20080720044244/http://www.football-league.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10794~1256193%2C00.html Sheffield Wednesday's Mark Beevers nets Wickes Young Apprentice of the Year Award], [[The Football League]].</ref>

====Stevenage Borough (loan)====
In February 2008, Smith joined [[Stevenage F.C.|Stevenage Borough]] in the [[Conference National]] on a one-month emergency loan.<ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20080429235501/http://www.itfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10272~1246240%2C00.html Tommy to join Stevenage], [[Ipswich Town F.C.]]</ref> He made his debut for the club on 23 February in a 0–0 draw with [[Grays Athletic F.C.|Grays Athletic]].<ref name=sbase0708/> Later the loan was extended until the end of the season.<ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20080319060154/http://www.itfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10272~1264697%2C00.html Tommy Loan Extended], [[Ipswich Town F.C.]]</ref> He played 15 games for the club before returning to Ipswich.<ref>[http://www.stevenageborofc.com/index_news_det.php?news_id=651& BOROUGH RELEASE 5]{{dead link|date=October 2015}}, [[Stevenage F.C.]]</ref>

====Return to Ipswich====
Smith's form for Stevenage led to him getting his opportunity in the Ipswich first-team, he made his debut on 9 August 2008, in a 2–1 home loss to [[Preston North End F.C.|Preston North End]] at [[Portman Road]].

That season, Smith broke his ankle in training, and missed the majority of the season. However, by the time he made his return to first team action, manager [[Jim Magilton]] had left the club and been replaced by [[Roy Keane]]. Smith featured heavily in Keane's early games as Ipswich manager, with the former [[Manchester United F.C.|Manchester United]] midfielder opting to give some of the club's younger talent – such as [[Connor Wickham]] and Smith – a chance to prove themselves.

However, injury stalled Smith's progress once again, when he suffered another training ground injury – this time to his hand. In his absence [[Gareth McAuley]] and [[Damien Delaney]] formed a solid defensive partnership ahead of deputizing goalkeeper [[Arran Lee-Barrett]]. Smith was unable to force his way back into the first team in the short-term.

====Brentford (loan)====
On 7 January 2010, Smith joined [[Brentford F.C.|Brentford]] on a temporary basis. In doing so, Smith replaced [[Pim Balkestein]] at [[Griffin Park]], who had been on loan at the club from Ipswich too. He made his debut on 16 January in a 3–1 win over [[Carlisle United F.C.|Carlisle United]].<ref name=sbase0910/> Smith played eight games during his brief spell at Brentford, before being recalled by Ipswich on 15 March.<ref name="Tommy back with Town">{{Cite news |url=http://www.itfc.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0,,10272~1994490,00.html |title=Tommy back with Town |date=15 March 2010 |access-date=15 March 2010 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120313123219/http://www.itfc.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10272~1994490%2C00.html |archive-date=13 March 2012 |publisher=Ipswich Town F.C. official website}}</ref>

====Return to Ipswich====
Smith scored his first professional goal for Ipswich away against [[Middlesbrough F.C.|Middlesbrough]] in the first game of the [[2010–11 Football League Championship|2010–11 Championship]] season, which Ipswich won 3–1. He made 26 appearances over the course of the season, scoring 3 goals.<ref name=sbase1011/>

====Colchester United (loan)====
On 17 March 2011, Smith signed for [[Colchester United F.C.|Colchester United]] on loan for the rest of the 2010–11 season. He made his debut two days later in a 1–0 away loss to [[Tranmere Rovers F.C.|Tranmere Rovers]]. He made six appearances during his loan spell before returning to Ipswich.<ref name=sbase1011/>

====Return to Ipswich====
After an impressive [[2011–12 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2011–12 season]], in which he scored 3 goals in 28 appearances, Smith signed a two-year contract extension in May 2012.<ref>{{Cite news |url=http://www.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&objectid=10806846 |title=All White Smith to stay at Ipswich |date=18 May 2012 |work=[[The New Zealand Herald]] |access-date=25 May 2012}}</ref>

He scored in his first appearance of the [[2012–13 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2012–13 season]] in a 3–1 home win over [[Bristol Rovers F.C.|Bristol Rovers]] at Portman Road in a [[EFL Cup|League Cup]] first round tie, on 14 August. He established himself as a first-team starter over the course of the season, making 41 appearances in all competitions and scoring 4 goals.<ref name="TS12" /> Smith's performances earned him the [[Ipswich Town F.C. Player of the Year|Ipswich Town Player of the Year]] award for the season.<ref name=PotY/>

Smith formed a strong defensive partnership with new signing [[Christophe Berra]] during the [[2013–14 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2013–14 season]]. He scored his first goal of the season on 10 August, in a 3–0 home win over [[Millwall F.C.|Millwall]]. He made 47 appearances during the season, scoring 6 goals, his highest goal return in a season to date.<ref name="TS13" />

He continued to feature as a first-team regular during the [[2014–15 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2014–15 season]] as Ipswich finished 6th and qualified for the [[Football League Championship play-offs|Championship play-offs]]. He played 46 games over the course of the season, scoring 5 goals, including scoring against [[Norwich City F.C.|Norwich City]] in an [[East Anglian Derby]] on 16 May 2015.<ref name="TS14" />

He scored his first goal of the [[2015–16 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2015–16 season]] on 15 August, netting the winner in a 2–1 home win over [[Sheffield Wednesday F.C.|Sheffield Wednesday]] at Portman Road. He scored his second goal of the season on 15 September, scoring the winning goal in a 0–1 away win over [[Leeds United F.C.|Leeds United]] at [[Elland Road]]. He made a total of 48 appearances during the season, scoring 2 goals.<ref name="TS15" />

Injury hampered Smith's [[2016–17 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2016–17 season]], on 16 September he was ruled out for 12 weeks due to a back injury.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.twtd.co.uk/ipswich-town-news/30281/smith-facing-12-weeks-out |title=Smith Facing 12 Weeks Out |website=TWTD |access-date=7 January 2020}}</ref> He continued to suffer with injury over the course of the season, making just 11 appearances during the campaign.<ref name="TS16" />

He continued to suffer injury problems during the [[2017–18 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2017–18 season]], he made his first appearance of the season on the opening day 1–0 win over [[Birmingham City F.C.|Birmingham City]], but only made a further two appearances between August and January. On 6 January 2018 it was reported that Smith was close to joining [[Major League Soccer]] side [[Colorado Rapids]].<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.twtd.co.uk/ipswich-town-news/32930/smith-close-to-colorado-switch |title=Smith Close to Colorado Switch |website=TWTD |access-date=7 January 2020}}</ref>

===Colorado Rapids===
On 22 January 2018, Smith signed with Colorado Rapids.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.coloradorapids.com/post/2018/01/22/colorado-rapids-acquire-defender-tommy-smith-ipswich-town|title=Colorado Rapids acquire defender Tommy Smith from Ipswich Town &#124; Colorado Rapids}}</ref> He made his debut for the club on 21 February, in a 2–0 loss to [[Toronto FC]] in a [[CONCACAF Champions League]] tie. He scored his first goal for the club on 14 June 2018 in a 2–2 draw with [[Chicago Fire FC|Chicago Fire]]. During a match against [[Minnesota United FC|Minnesota United]] on 13 October 2018, he partially provoked a brawl after the team scored their second goal. He was red carded as a result.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.prosoccerusa.com/mls/minnesota-united-fc/a-testy-afternoon-in-minnesota-leads-to-a-rare-road-win-for-colorado/ |title=Testy afternoon in Minnesota leads to rare road win for Colorado |date=13 October 2018 |website=Pro Soccer USA}}</ref> He made 36 appearances during his first season at the club, scoring 4 goals, including late winners over [[Minnesota United F.C.|Minnesota United]] and [[FC Dallas|Dallas]].<ref name="TS17" />

He scored in the opening game of the [[2019 Colorado Rapids season|2019]] season in a 2–1 loss to Dallas. He went on to make a total of 28 appearances over the course of the season, netting 3 goals.<ref name="TS18">{{soccerbase season|48793|2018|access-date=7 January 2020}}</ref>

On 22 November 2019, it was announced that Smith's contract would not be extended and he left the club.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.coloradorapids.com/post/2019/11/21/colorado-rapids-announce-roster-moves-ahead-2020-season |title=Colorado Rapids announce roster moves ahead of the 2020 season |website=Colorado Rapids |access-date=22 November 2019}}</ref> Following his release from Colorado, Smith returned to England and began training with former club Ipswich, leading to speculation of a return to the club. However, manager Paul Lambert ruled out this possibility.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.eadt.co.uk/sport/tommy-smith-back-training-with-ipswich-town-1-6412137|title = Tommy Smith is back training with Ipswich Town – Here's what Lambert had to say|date = 6 December 2019}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web| last1=Warren | first1=Andy |url=https://www.eadt.co.uk/sport/paul-lambert-on-tommy-smith-and-toto-nsiala-1-6459818|title = 'It's crazy. You've got to move on' - Lambert rules out Smith move as Town boss confirms Nsiala could join Bolton| work=East Anglian Daily Times |date = 10 January 2020}}</ref>

===Sunderland===
On 21 February 2020, Smith joined League One club [[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]] on a contract until the end of the season.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.safc.com:443/news/team-news/2020/february/smith-signs-up |title=Smith signs up |date=21 February 2020 |website=Sunderland Association Football Club |language=en |access-date=21 February 2020}}</ref> With the suspension of the 2019–20 season due to the [[COVID-19 pandemic]], he did not make an appearance for the club. He left Sunderland at the end of the season following the end of his short-term contract.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/defender-tommy-smith-leaves-sunderland-18332356 |title=Tommy Smith departs Sunderland after only three months |date=29 May 2020 |website=Chronicle Live |language=en |access-date=29 May 2020}}</ref>

===Colchester United===
On 25 August 2020, Smith joined [[EFL League Two|League Two]] side [[Colchester United F.C.|Colchester United]] on a two-year deal. He had previously appeared for Colchester on loan from Ipswich during the 2010–11 season and had featured in a number of Colchester's 2020–21 pre-season friendlies.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.cu-fc.com/news/2020/august/tommy-smith-signs/ |title=Tommy Smith Signs For The U's |date=25 August 2020 |last=Gregory |first=David |publisher=Colchester United FC |access-date=25 August 2020 }}</ref> He made his second debut for the club on 5 September 2020 in Colchester's 3–1 EFL Cup defeat to [[Reading F.C.|Reading]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/53955782 |title=Reading 3–1 Colchester United |date=5 September 2020 |publisher=BBC Sport |access-date=6 September 2020 }}</ref> He scored his first goal for the club in their 2–1 win over [[Grimsby Town F.C.|Grimsby Town]] on 5 December 2020.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/55111796 |title=Colchester United 2–1 Grimsby Town |date=5 December 2020 |publisher=BBC Sport |access-date=7 December 2020 }}</ref> On 5 July 2021, Smith signed a two-year contract extension with the club.<ref>{{cite web |title=Colchester United: New deals for Tommy Smith, Junior Tchamadeu & Brendan Wiredu |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/57728583 |publisher=BBC Sport |date=5 July 2021 |access-date=6 July 2021}}</ref> He was named [[Captain (association football)|club captain]] ahead of the [[2021–22 Colchester United F.C. season|2021–22]] season.<ref>{{cite news |last=Warren |first=Andy |date=16 July 2021 |title=Former Town defender named new Colchester United skipper |url=https://www.eadt.co.uk/sport/ipswich-town/colchester-united-name-tommy-smith-as-skipper-8151986 |newspaper=East Anglian Daily Times |location=Ipswich |access-date=19 July 2021 }}</ref>

===Milton Keynes Dons===
On 28 July 2023, Smith joined League Two club [[Milton Keynes Dons F.C.|Milton Keynes Dons]] on a free transfer following a successful trial period with the club in pre-season.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.mkdons.com/news/2023/july/don-deal-tommy-smith-signs-for-mk-dons/ |title=Don Deal: Tommy Smith signs for MK Dons |publisher=[[Milton Keynes Dons F.C.|Milton Keynes Dons]] |date=28 July 2023 |access-date=28 July 2023 }}</ref> He made his debut for the club in the opening game of the [[2023–24 Milton Keynes Dons F.C. season|2023–24 season]] on 5 August 2023, in a 5–3 away win over [[Wrexham A.F.C.|Wrexham]].<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/football/66345968 |title=Wrexham 3-5 Milton Keynes Dons: Dragons' EFL return spoiled by Dons |publisher=[[BBC]] |date=5 August 2023 |access-date=5 August 2023 }}</ref> On 6 February 2024, Smith's contract was terminated by mutual consent.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.mkdons.com/news/2024/february/tommy-smith-joins-macarthur-fc/|title=Tommy Smith joins Macarthur FC |publisher=[[Milton Keynes Dons F.C.|Milton Keynes Dons]] |date=6 February 2024 |access-date=6 February 2024 }}</ref>

===Macarthur FC===
On 6 February 2024, Smith signed for [[Macarthur FC]], making the move to [[Australia]] to play in the [[A-League Men|A-League]]. Joining mid-way through the season, Smith signed to the end of the active [[2023–24 A-League Men|2023–24 season]].<ref>{{cite news|date=6 February 2024|title=Bulls sign All Whites defender Tommy Smith|url=https://macarthurfc.com.au/news/bulls-sign-all-whites-defender-tommy-smith|publisher=[[Macarthur FC]]|access-date=6 February 2024}}</ref>

===Auckland FC===

Smith joined [[Auckland FC]] ahead of their debut [[A-League Men]] season.<ref>{{cite web |title=AFC blend youth with experience as two more signings announced |url=https://aucklandfc.co.nz/news/afc-blend-youth-with-experience-as-two-more-signings-announced/ |website=Auckland FC |access-date=22 December 2025}}</ref>

He was appointed vice-captain as part of the club’s leadership group under captain [[Hiroki Sakai]].<ref>{{cite web |title=Sakai appointed new Auckland FC captain, two vice-captains named |url=https://aucklandfc.co.nz/news/sakai-appointed-new-auckland-fc-captain-two-vice-captains-named/ |website=Auckland FC |access-date=22 December 2025}}</ref>

During the 2024–25 season, Auckland FC secured the [[A-League Men]] premiers plate, marking the first piece of club silverware of Smith’s career.<ref>{{cite web |title=Auckland FC win Premiers' Plate in debut season |url=https://aucklandfc.co.nz/news/auckland-fc-win-premiers-plate-in-debut-season/ |website=Auckland FC |access-date=22 December 2025}}</ref>

On 17 July 2025, the club announced that Smith had departed Auckland FC to return to England with his family.<ref>{{cite web |title=Tommy Smith bids farewell to Auckland FC |url=https://aucklandfc.co.nz/news/tommy-smith-bids-farewell-to-auckland-fc/ |website=Auckland FC |access-date=22 December 2025}}</ref>

===Braintree Town===
On 2 August 2025, Smith returned to England, joining [[National League (division)|National League]] club [[Braintree Town F.C.|Braintree Town]].<ref>{{cite tweet|number=1951629185161555972|title=📝 The Iron are delighted to announce the signing of former Ipswich, Colchester and New Zealand international defender Tommy Smith after his departure from @fc_auckland The experienced defender will no doubt be a great addition to our already strong backline #PubTeamFromEssex #WelcomeTommy|user=braintreetownfc|author-link=Braintree Town F.C.|date=2 August 2025|accessdate=2 August 2025}}</ref>

==International career==
Born in England, Smith resided in [[New Zealand]] during his youth and as a result holds dual nationality. This gave him the opportunity to declare himself eligible for the [[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand national football team]] ("All Whites"), though he has also represented England at [[England national under-17 football team|U-17]] and [[England national under-18 football team|U-18]] level. Smith played in the [[2007 FIFA U-17 World Cup]] in Korea during September 2007 despite not playing a part in England's qualification for the tournament.<ref>[https://web.archive.org/web/20071219211225/http://www.itfc.premiumtv.co.uk/page/NewsDetail/0%2C%2C10272~1157362%2C00.html Tommy in England Squad], [[Ipswich Town F.C.]]</ref>

In December 2009, after the New Zealand national football team had qualified for the [[2010 FIFA World Cup]], Smith declared that he wanted to play for New Zealand and made himself available for All Whites selection,<ref name="NZ_Herald_10617147">{{Cite news |last=Rattue, Chris |url=http://www.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&objectid=10617147&ref=rss |title=Soccer: Smith's switch major boost for All Whites |date=23 December 2009 |work=[[The New Zealand Herald]] |access-date=23 November 2011}}</ref> having been offered the opportunity by the Kiwi's boss, [[Ricki Herbert]]. He made his full international debut on 3 March 2010, starting in a 2–0 friendly defeat to [[Mexico national football team|Mexico]] in Los Angeles, USA on 3 March 2010.<ref name="Stuff.co.nz_3308355">{{Cite news |url=http://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/football/3308355/All-Whites-team-for-Cup-warm-up-named |title=All Whites team for Cup warm-up named |date=9 February 2010 |work=[[Stuff.co.nz]] |access-date=23 November 2011 |agency=[[NZPA]]}}</ref><ref>{{Cite web|url=http://www.espnfc.com/gamecast/statistics/id/287637/statistics.html|title=New Zealand 0 – 2 Mexico}}</ref> Smith was named in New Zealand's final 23-man squad to compete at the 2010 FIFA World Cup<ref name="aws2010">{{Cite web |url=http://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/football/world-cup/3676399/All-Whites-World-Cup-squad-named |title=All Whites World Cup squad named |date=10 May 2010 |publisher=Stuff.co.nz |access-date=10 May 2010}}</ref> and made his first World Cup Finals appearance in New Zealand's opening game, a 1–1 draw against [[Slovakia national football team|Slovakia]].<ref>{{Cite news |url=https://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/world_cup_2010/matches/match_12/default.stm |title=New Zealand 1–1 Slovakia |date=15 June 2010 |access-date=15 June 2010 |publisher=BBC Sport}}</ref> He also went on play every minute of New Zealand's World Cup campaign, which achieved a historic three points at the tournament.

Smith became the youngest captain in All Whites history after leading the team in a 2–2 draw versus [[El Salvador national football team|El Salvador]] on 23 May 2012.<ref>{{Cite news |url=http://www.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&objectid=10808152 |title=All Whites battle to draw with El Salvador |date=24 May 2012 |access-date=24 May 2012 |publisher=[[Stuff.co.nz]]}}</ref> On 2 June 2012, Smith scored his first goal for his country in 1–0 win versus [[Fiji]] in a [[2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (OFC)|2014 FIFA World Cup Qualifier]].<ref>{{Cite news |url=http://www.nzherald.co.nz/sport/news/article.cfm?c_id=4&objectid=10810285 |title=All Whites kick off World Cup campaign with a win |date=2 June 2012 |access-date=2 June 2012 |publisher=[[The New Zealand Herald]]}}</ref> He represented New Zealand at the [[2012 Summer Olympics]], playing in all three of New Zealand's games.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.sports-reference.com/olympics/athletes/sm/tommy-smith-1.html |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20200418053824/https://www.sports-reference.com/olympics/athletes/sm/tommy-smith-1.html |url-status=dead |archive-date=18 April 2020 |title=Tommy Smith Bio, Stats, and Results |website=Olympics at Sports-Reference.com |language=en |access-date=3 July 2019}}</ref> In May 2016, coach [[Anthony Hudson (footballer)|Anthony Hudson]] suggested Smith would not be called up for the national team in the future, citing a perceived lack of commitment.<ref>{{Cite news |url=http://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/football/nz-teams/79914680/tommy-smith-wont-be-selected-for-all-whites-going-forward--hudson |title=Tommy Smith won't be selected for All Whites going forward – Hudson |date=12 May 2016 |access-date=15 May 2016 |publisher=[[Stuff.co.nz]]}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|16 March 2026}}

{| class="wikitable nowrap" style="text-align: center;"
|+Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
|-
!rowspan=2|Club
!rowspan=2|Season
!colspan=3|League
!colspan=2|Cup<ref group="lower-alpha">Includes the [[FA Cup]] and [[U.S. Open Cup]]</ref>
!colspan=2|League Cup<ref group="lower-alpha">Includes the [[EFL Cup]] and [[National League Cup (football)|National League Cup]]</ref>
!colspan=2|Continental
!colspan=2|Other
!colspan=2|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan=12|[[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]]
|[[2007–08 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2007–08]]<ref name="sbase0708">{{Soccerbase season|48793|2007|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|rowspan=11|[[Football League Championship|Championship]]
|0||0||0||0||0||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||0||0
|-
|[[2008–09 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2008–09]]<ref>{{Soccerbase season|48793|2008|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|2||0||0||0||0||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||2||0
|-
|[[2009–10 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2009–10]]<ref name="sbase0910">{{Soccerbase season|48793|2009|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|14||0||0||0||1||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||15||0
|-
|[[2010–11 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2010–11]]<ref name="sbase1011">{{Soccerbase season|48793|2010|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|22||3||0||0||4||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||26||3
|-
|[[2011–12 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2011–12]]<ref>{{Soccerbase season|48793|2011|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|26||3||1||0||1||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||28||3
|-
|[[2012–13 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2012–13]]<ref name="TS12">{{Soccerbase season|48793|2012|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|38||3||1||0||2||1||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||41||4
|-
|[[2013–14 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2013–14]]<ref name="TS13">{{Soccerbase season|48793|2013|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|45||6||1||0||1||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||47||6
|-
|[[2014–15 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2014–15]]<ref name="TS14">{{Soccerbase season|48793|2014|name=Tommy Smith|access-date=6 January 2013}}</ref>
|42||4||2||0||0||0||colspan=2|―||2{{efn|Appearances in the [[Football League Championship play-offs|Championship play-offs]]}}||1||46||5
|-
|[[2015–16 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2015–16]]<ref name="TS15">{{soccerbase season|48793|2015|access-date=21 July 2017}}</ref>
|45||2||1||0||2||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||48||2
|-
|[[2016–17 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2016–17]]<ref name="TS16">{{soccerbase season|48793|2016|access-date=21 July 2017}}</ref>
|10||0||0||0||1||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||11||0
|-
|[[2017–18 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2017–18]]<ref name="TS17">{{soccerbase season|48793|2017|access-date=6 February 2019}}</ref>
|3||0||0||0||0||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||3||0
|-
!colspan=2|Total
!247!!21!!6!!0!!12!!1!!colspan="2"|―!!2!!1!!267!!23
|-
|{{nowrap|[[Stevenage F.C.|Stevenage Borough]] (loan)}}
|[[2007–08 Football Conference#Conference Premier|2007–08]]<ref name=sbase0708/>
|[[Conference Premier]]
|15||0||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||15||0
|-
|[[Brentford F.C.|Brentford]] (loan)
|[[2009–10 Brentford F.C. season|2009–10]]<ref name=sbase0910/>
|[[Football League One|League One]]
|8||0||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||8||0
|-
|[[Colchester United F.C.|Colchester United]] (loan)
|[[2010–11 Colchester United F.C. season|2010–11]]<ref name=sbase1011/>
|League One
|6||0||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||6||0
|-
|rowspan=3|[[Colorado Rapids]]
|[[2018 Colorado Rapids season|2018]]<ref name="Soccerway">{{Soccerway|52899|accessdate=30 July 2019}}</ref>
|rowspan=2|{{nowrap|[[Major League Soccer]]}}
|33||4||1||0||colspan=2|―||2{{efn|Appearances in [[CONCACAF Champions League]]}}||0||colspan=2|―||36||4
|-
|[[2019 Colorado Rapids season|2019]]<ref name="Soccerway" />
|27||3||1||0||colspan=2|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||28||3
|-
!colspan=2|Total
!60!!7!!2!!0!!colspan="2"|―!!2!!0!!colspan="2"|―!!64!!7
|-
|[[Sunderland A.F.C.|Sunderland]]
|[[2019–20 Sunderland A.F.C. season|2019–20]]<ref name="TS19">{{soccerbase season|48793|2019|access-date=21 February 2020}}</ref>
|League One
|0||0||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||colspan="2"|―||0||0
|-
|rowspan=4|[[Colchester United F.C.|Colchester United]]
|[[2020–21 Colchester United F.C. season|2020–21]]<ref name="TS20">{{soccerbase season|48793|2020|access-date=25 August 2020}}</ref>
|rowspan=3|[[EFL League Two|League Two]]
|45||2||1||0||1||0||colspan="2"|―||0||0||47||2
|-
|[[2021–22 Colchester United F.C. season|2021–22]]<ref name="TS21">{{soccerbase season|48793|2021|access-date=7 August 2021}}</ref>
|32||1||1||0||1||0||colspan="2"|―||2{{efn|name=EFLT|Appearance(s) in [[EFL Trophy]]}}||0||36||1
|-
|[[2022–23 Colchester United F.C. season|2022–23]]<ref name="TS22">{{soccerbase season|48793|2022|access-date=17 February 2023}}</ref>
|11||0||0||0||0||0||colspan="2"|―||1{{efn|name=EFLT}}||0||11||0
|-
!colspan=2|Total
!88!!3!!2!!0!!2!!0!!colspan="2"|―!!3!!0!!95!!3
|-
|[[Milton Keynes Dons F.C.|Milton Keynes Dons]]
|{{nowrap|[[2023–24 Milton Keynes Dons F.C. season|2023–24]]<ref name="TS23">{{soccerbase season|48793|2023|access-date=28 July 2023}}</ref>}}
|League Two
|10||0||1||0||0||0||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|name=EFLT}}||0||12||0
|-
|[[Macarthur FC|Macarthur]]
|[[2023–24 Macarthur FC season|2023–24]]<ref>{{cite web|url=https://au.soccerway.com/players/tommy-smith/52899/|title=T. Smith|website=Soccerway|access-date=2 March 2024}}</ref>
|[[A-League Men]]
|7||1||0||0||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|name=AFCC|Appearance in [[AFC Cup]]}}||0||1{{efn|name=ALF|Appearances in [[A-League Men finals series]]}}||0||9||1
|-
|[[Auckland FC]]
|[[2024–25 Auckland FC season|2024–25]]
|A-League Men
|22||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||1{{efn|name=ALF|Appearances in [[A-League Men finals series]]}}||0||23||0
|-
|[[Braintree Town F.C.|Braintree Town]]
|[[2025–26 National League|2025–26]]
|[[National League (division)|National League]]
|14||0||1||0||3||0||colspan="2"|—||0||0||18||0
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!462!!32!!12!!0!!17!!1!!3!!0!!8!!1!!498!!31
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 7 September 2024|<ref>{{NFT player|36528|name=Tommy Smith|accessdate=}}</ref>}}

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="15"|[[New Zealand men's national football team|New Zealand]]
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2010|2010]]||7||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2011|2011]]||1||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2012|2012]]||13||1
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2013|2013]]||6||1
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2014|2014]]||2||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2015|2015]]||0||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2016|2016]]||0||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2017|2017]]||7||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2018|2018]]||0||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2019|2019]]||2||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2020|2020]]||0||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2021|2021]]||3||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2022|2022]]||8||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2023|2023]]||2||0
|-
|[[New Zealand national football team results#2024|2024]]||5||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!56!!2
|}

{{Updated|match played 22 March 2013}}
:''Scores and results list New Zealand's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Smith goal.''

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Tommy Smith
|-
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col" data-sort-type="date"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
|style="text-align:center"|1
|2 June 2012||[[Lawson Tama Stadium]], [[Honiara]], Solomon Islands||{{fb|FIJ}}||style="text-align:center"|1–0||style="text-align:center"|1–0||[[2012 OFC Nations Cup]]
|-
|style="text-align:center"|2
|22 March 2013||[[Forsyth Barr Stadium]], [[Dunedin]], New Zealand||{{fb|NCL}}||style="text-align:center"|2–1||style="text-align:center"|2–1||[[2014 FIFA World Cup qualification (OFC)#Third round|2014 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|}

==Honours==
'''Auckland FC'''
* [[List of A-League champions|A-League Premiership]]: [[2024-25 A-League Men|2024-25]]

'''New Zealand'''
* [[OFC Nations Cup]]: [[2024 OFC Nations Cup|2024]]

'''Individual'''
*[[Ipswich Town F.C.|Ipswich Town]] Young Player of the Year: [[2006–07 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2006–07]]<ref name="YPotY">{{Cite news |url=https://www.twtd.co.uk/ipswich-town-news/11124/legwinski-players-player |title=Legwinski Players' Player |date=1 May 2007 |access-date=20 September 2019 |publisher=TWTD}}</ref>
*[[Ipswich Town F.C. Player of the Year|Ipswich Town Player of the Year]]: [[2012–13 Ipswich Town F.C. season|2012–13]]<ref name="PotY">{{Cite web |url=http://www.stuff.co.nz/sport/football/8613092/Tommy-Smith-the-Ipswich-fans-player-of-year |title=Tommy Smith the Ipswich fans' player of year |date=30 April 2013 |publisher=[[stuff.co.nz]] |access-date=20 September 2019}}</ref>
*[[IFFHS World Team#Men Team of the Decade (2011–2020)|IFFHS OFC Men's Team of the Decade]] 2011–2020<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.iffhs.com/index.php/posts/934 |title=IFFHS MAN TEAM - OFC - OF THE DECADE 2011-2020 |work=IFFHS |date=31 January 2021 }}</ref>
*[[International Federation of Football History & Statistics|IFFHS]] Oceania Men's Team of All Time: 2021<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.iffhs.com/posts/1150 |title=IFFHS ALL TIME OCEANIA MEN'S DREAM TEAM |publisher=IFFHS |date=14 June 2021 |access-date=23 December 2021}}</ref>

==See also==
* [[List of New Zealand international footballers]]

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
*{{Cite web |url=http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/index.php?id=1124 |title=NZ Football Profile |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20140702111621/http://www.nzfootball.co.nz/index.php?id=1124 |archive-date=2 July 2014 |access-date=2 June 2012}}
*{{FIFA player|274102}}
*{{NFT player|36528}}
*{{Soccerway|tommy-smith/52899}}
*{{Soccerbase|48793}}

{{Navboxes
|title = New Zealand squads
|bg = black
|fg = white
|bordercolor=black
|list1 =
{{New Zealand squad 2010 FIFA World Cup}}
{{New Zealand squad 2012 OFC Nations Cup}}
{{New Zealand men's football squad 2012 Summer Olympics}}
{{2012 New Zealand Olympic team}}
{{New Zealand squad 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup}}
{{New Zealand squad 2024 OFC Men's Nations Cup}}
{{New Zealand squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}
{{Ipswich Town F.C. Player of the Year}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Smith, Tommy}}
[[Category:1990 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Footballers from Macclesfield]]
[[Category:New Zealand men's association footballers]]
[[Category:New Zealand men's international footballers]]
[[Category:New Zealand men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:English men's footballers]]
[[Category:England men's youth international footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football defenders]]
[[Category:Ipswich Town F.C. players]]
[[Category:Stevenage F.C. players]]
[[Category:Brentford F.C. players]]
[[Category:Colchester United F.C. players]]
[[Category:Colorado Rapids players]]
[[Category:Sunderland A.F.C. players]]
[[Category:Milton Keynes Dons F.C. players]]
[[Category:Macarthur FC players]]
[[Category:Auckland FC players]]
[[Category:Braintree Town F.C. players]]
[[Category:English Football League players]]
[[Category:National League (English football) players]]
[[Category:Major League Soccer players]]
[[Category:A-League Men players]]
[[Category:Olympic association footballers for New Zealand]]
[[Category:2010 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:2012 OFC Nations Cup players]]
[[Category:Footballers at the 2012 Summer Olympics]]
[[Category:2017 FIFA Confederations Cup players]]
[[Category:2024 OFC Men's Nations Cup players]]
[[Category:English emigrants to New Zealand]]
[[Category:English expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:New Zealand expatriate men's association footballers]]
[[Category:English expatriate sportspeople in the United States]]
[[Category:New Zealand expatriate sportspeople in the United States]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States]]
[[Category:OFC Nations Cup–winning players]]
[[Category:21st-century English sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century New Zealand sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]