{{Short description|Argentine footballer (born 2006)}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Joaquín Freitas
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|2006|12|2|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[San Fernando (Buenos Aires)|San Fernando]], [[Buenos Aires Province]], Argentina
| height = {{height|m=1.77}}
| position = [[Forward (association football)|Forward]]
| currentclub = [[Club Atlético River Plate|River Plate]]
| clubnumber = 35
| youthyears1 = 2022–2023
| youthclubs1 = [[Club Atlético Acassuso|Acassuso]]
| youthyears2 = 2024–2025
| youthclubs2 = [[Club Atlético River Plate|River Plate II]]
| years1 = 2023
| clubs1 = [[Club Atlético Acassuso|Acassuso]]
| caps1 = 5
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2025–
| clubs2 = [[Club Atlético River Plate|River Plate]]
| caps2 = 15
| goals2 = 1
| nationalyears1 = 2026–
| nationalteam1 = [[Argentina national football team|Argentina]]
| nationalcaps1 = 1
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| club-update = 24 May 2026
| nationalteam-update = 6 June 2026
}}

'''Joaquín Freitas''' (born 2 December 2006) is an Argentine professional [[association football]] player who plays as a [[Forward (association football)|forward]] for the [[AFA Liga Profesional de Fútbol|Argentine Primera Division]] club [[Club Atlético River Plate|River Plate]] and the [[Argentina national football team|Argentina national team]].

== Club career ==

=== Acassuso ===
Freitas completed his initial training at [[Club Atlético Acassuso|Acassuso]], an institution based in the [[Acassuso|town of the same name]] in [[Greater Buenos Aires]]. In 2022, while playing in the club's youth divisions, he became the top scorer in the youth tournament of the seventh division of the [[Argentine Football Association]]  with 26 goals, an achievement that earned him a call-up to the [[Argentina national under-20 football team|Argentina national under-20 team]] coached by Claudio Gugnali.<ref name="Infobae">{{Cite web |date=27 February 2026 |title=Joaquín Freitas, el juvenil de River Plate que marcó su primer gol en Primera |url=https://www.infobae.com/deportes/2026/02/27/joaquin-freitas-el-juvenil-de-river-plate-que-marco-su-primer-gol-en-primera-debut-en-acassuso-y-blindaje-por-usd-100-millones/ |access-date=7 April 2026 |publisher=Infobae}}</ref>

On 29 May 2023, at just 16 years old, Freitas made his official debut with the Acassuso senior team under coach Alejandro Friedrich in the sixteenth round of the [[Primera B Metropolitana|Primera B]] against [[Deportivo Armenio]], entering at the 25th minute of the second half.<ref>{{Cite web |date=29 May 2023 |title=Acassuso - Dep. Armenio: resultado, goles y resumen del partido |url=https://www.tycsports.com/primera-division-b/acassuso-vs-dep-armenio-en-vivo-hora-donde-ver-y-formaciones-id514240.html |access-date=7 April 2026 |publisher=TyC Sports}}</ref>

=== River Plate ===
In January 2024, [[Club Atlético River Plate]] showed interest in the young striker and signed him, initially acquiring 75% of his transfer rights.<ref name="Tribuna">{{Cite web |date=3 April 2026 |title=River Plate acordó la compra del 100 % del pase de Joaquín Freitas |url=https://tribuna.com/es/news/2026-04-03-river-plate-acordo-la-compra-del-100-del-pase-de-joaquin-freitas-informes/ |access-date=7 April 2026 |publisher=Tribuna}}</ref> Freitas first joined the club's Fourth Division and quickly rose to the Reserve squad, where he made his official debut on 11 October 2024.<ref name="Infobae"/>

During 2025, under the management of [[Marcelo Escudero]], Freitas participated in preseason training with the reserve squad and formed a starting attacking partnership with [[Bautista Dadín]]. He scored his first goal in April against [[San Martín de San Juan|San Martín (SJ)]] and maintained a scoring streak that included a goal in the ''[[Superclásico]]'' against [[Boca Juniors]] in May. He finished the season with 9 goals and 3 assists in 31 matches.<ref name="Destape">{{Cite web |date=22 February 2026 |title=Quién es Joaquín Freitas, el jugador de River que no hizo pretemporada y es el elegido de Gallardo |url=https://www.eldestapeweb.com/deportes/futbol-argentino/quien-es-joaquin-freitas-el-jugador-de-river-que-no-hizo-pretemporada-y-es-el-elegido-de-gallardo-202622220415 |access-date=7 April 2026 |publisher=El Destape}}</ref>

On 16 November 2025, Freitas made his first division debut against [[Club Atlético Vélez Sarsfield|Vélez Sarsfield]] under [[2025 Club Atlético River Plate season|the management]] of [[Marcelo Gallardo]]. At the end of the year, he signed his first professional contract, running until 31 December 2028, with a release clause set at $100 million.<ref>{{Cite web |date=22 December 2025 |title=La joya de River que ya debutó en Primera y firmó su primer contrato |url=https://www.ole.com.ar/river-plate/river-joaquin-freitas-primer-contrato-joya-historia-debut-velez_0_XJylkR5NVN.html |access-date=7 April 2026 |publisher=Diario Olé}}</ref>

By 2026, without having completed preseason with the first team, Freitas scored a brace against [[Talleres de Córdoba]] in the first match of the reserve tournament. Due to the lackluster performance of the first team's forwards, he was called up again and eventually became a regular member of the squad. He played a decisive role against [[Club Ciudad de Bolívar|Ciudad de Bolívar]] in the [[Copa Argentina]], coming on in the second half and drawing the [[Penalty kick (association football)|penalty]] that [[Juan Fernando Quintero]] converted to secure the victory and passage to the next round.<ref>{{Cite web |date=17 February 2026 |title=El penal de Martínez a Freitas en River vs. Ciudad Bolívar |url=https://www.tycsports.com/video/river-plate/el-penal-de-martinez-a-freitas-en-river-vs-ciudad-bolivar-id924857.html |access-date=7 April 2026 |publisher=TyC Sports}}</ref>

Freitas scored his first goal in the first division against [[Club Atlético Banfield|Banfield]], the third goal for the home team in their 3–1 victory. The match also served as Marcelo Gallardo's farewell as the club's historic manager. The goal was set up by an assist from [[Tomás Galván]] after a great team play.<ref>{{Cite web |date=26 February 2026 |title=River le regaló a Marcelo Gallardo una despedida con triunfo y ovación ante Banfield |url=https://www.lanueva.com/nota/2026-2-26-6-0-26-hora-tv-y-formaciones-river-recibe-a-banfield-en-la-despedida-de-gallardo |access-date=7 April 2026 |publisher=La nueva Provincia}}</ref>

In April 2026, an agreement was reached to purchase 100% of Freitas' player rights. The agreement included performance-based bonuses and a 25% sell-on clause for Acassuso in any future transfer, capped at 1 million dollars.<ref name="Tribuna"/>

== References ==
{{reflist}}

{{Club Atlético River Plate squad}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Freitas, Joaquín}}
[[Category:2006 births]]
[[Category:Argentine men's footballers]]
[[Category:Club Atlético Acassuso footballers]]
[[Category:Club Atlético River Plate footballers]]
[[Category:Argentine Primera División players]]
[[Category:Argentina men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Men's association football forwards]]
[[Category:Footballers from Buenos Aires Province]]
[[Category:Sportspeople from San Fernando de la Buena Vista]]