{{Short description|Australian soccer player (born 2003)}}
{{Multiple issues|
{{Lead too long|date=April 2026}}
{{BLP sources|date=April 2026}}
}}
{{Infobox football biography
| name = Patrick Beach
| image = PatrickBeachvWSW (cropped).jpg
| upright = 
| alt = 
| caption = Beach in 2025
| full_name = Patrick Thomas Beach<ref>{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce281/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=Squad List: FIFA World Cup 2026: Australia (AUS) |publisher=FIFA |page=3 |date=3 June 2026 |access-date=4 June 2026}}</ref>
| birth_date = {{birth date and age|2003|8|6|df=y}}
| birth_place = [[Sydney]], Australia
| height = 1.89m<ref>{{cite web|url=https://melbournecityfc.com.au/player/patrick-beach/|title=Patrick Beach|website=[[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]]|accessdate=5 November 2024}}</ref>
| position = [[Goalkeeper (association football)|Goalkeeper]]
| currentclub = [[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]]
| clubnumber = 1
| youthyears1 = 2007-2011
| youthclubs1 = Glenmore Park FC<ref>https://www.socceroos.com.au/news/subway-australian-u-23-squad-named-doha-international-cup</ref>
| youthyears2 = 2012–2018
| youthclubs2 = [[Mt Druitt Town Rangers FC|Mt Druitt Town Rangers]]
| youthyears3 = 2018–2019
| youthclubs3 = [[Marconi Stallions FC|Marconi Stallions]]
| youthyears4 = 2021–2023
| youthclubs4 = [[Central Coast Mariners Academy|Central Coast Mariners]]
| years1 = 2021–2023
| clubs1 = [[Central Coast Mariners Academy|Central Coast Mariners NPL]]
| caps1 = 15
| goals1 = 0
| years2 = 2021–2023
| clubs2 = [[Central Coast Mariners FC|Central Coast Mariners]]
| caps2 = 0
| goals2 = 0
| years3 = 2023–
| clubs3 = [[Melbourne City FC Youth|Melbourne City NPL]]
| caps3 = 6
| goals3 = 0
| years4 = 2023–
| clubs4 = [[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]]
| caps4 = 53
| goals4 = 0
| nationalyears1 = 2024–
| nationalteam1 = [[Australia men's national under-23 soccer team|Australia U23]]
| nationalcaps1 = 11
| nationalgoals1 = 0
| nationalyears2 = 2025–
| nationalteam2 = [[Australia men's national soccer team|Australia]]
| nationalcaps2 = 1
| nationalgoals2 = 0
| club-update = 22 March 2026
| nationalteam-update = 15 November 2025
| medaltemplates = {{MedalSport|Men's [[Association football|football]]}}
{{MedalCountry|{{fb|AUS}}}}
{{MedalCompetition|[[WAFF U-23 Championship]]}}
{{Medal|RU|[[2024 WAFF U-23 Championship|2024 Saudi Arabia]]|}}
}}
'''Patrick Thomas Beach''' (born 6 August 2003) is an Australian professional [[association football|soccer]] player who plays as a [[Goalkeeper (association football)|goalkeeper]] for [[A-League Men]] club [[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]] and the [[Australia men's national soccer team|Australia national team]].

Beach developed his football skills playing in the NSW Football Competition. His junior club was Glenmore Park Football Club where he played his first 5 years, then transferring to Mount Druitt Town Rangers for the SAP program. After completing 3 years in the SAP program Beach played a further 3 years with Rangers in the NSW Youth League program. Beach then transferred to the Marconi Stallions Football Club for 2 seasons before accepting a position to trial overseas at Larne FC, Northern Ireland. After 12 months Beach headed south to Dundalk FC, Republic of Ireland and then across to the United Kingdom to trial with Ipswich Town FC, returning to Australia in October 2021 to join the Central Coast Mariners. After a successful stint with the Mariners, Beach accepted an offer in the A League in 2023 to join Melbourne City on the bench playing behind Goalkeeper Jamie Young.  In October 2024, Beach replaced Young as the starting keeper, making his A League debut against Newcastle FC, keeping a clean sheet on debut and receiving the Man of the Match award after the 1–0 win to Melbourne City. During his debut in the [[2024–25 A-League Men]] season, Beach played in all games, (regular season and finals fixtures) culminating in a grand final win with his team and becoming an A League Championship winning player at 21 years of age. Beach at the age of 22, made his Australian Men's team (Socceroo) debut on 14 November 2025,  against Venezuela, receiving the Player of the Match from Football Australia.

==Club career==
===Central Coast Mariners===
Beach was benched in two league matches with the [[Central Coast Mariners FC|Central Coast Mariners]] in January 2022 and joined the roster for the [[2021 FFA Cup final]],<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.nbnnews.com.au/2022/02/02/mariners-without-jason-cummings-for-ffa-cup-final/|title=Mariners without Jason Cummings for FFA Cup final|website=NBN News|date=2 February 2022|access-date=14 February 2025}}</ref> but did not make an appearance during his stint with the club.

===Melbourne City===
Beach signed for [[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]] on 23 June 2023 on a three-year deal, and was benched for the entire [[2023–24 A-League Men]] campaign.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://melbournecityfc.com.au/news/20230623_young_trio_sign/|title=CITY SWOOP ON YOUNG TRIO: Beach, Lopane, Schreiber make Melbourne move|website=[[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]]|date=23 June 2023}}</ref> In the next season in 2024–25, he made his professional debut with Melbourne City on 19 October 2024 starting and keeping a clean sheet against the [[Newcastle Jets FC|Newcastle Jets]] in a 1–0 win, earning him the Man of the Match on debut.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://melbournecityfc.com.au/news/20241021-beach-im-ecstatic-with-the-win/|title=BEACH: I'm ecstatic with the win|website=[[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]]|date=21 October 2024}}</ref> Manager [[Aurelio Vidmar]] explained the decision to start Beach ahead of regular goalkeeper [[Jamie Young]] by saying that it was the time to give the younger player the opportunity.<ref>{{Cite web|first=Matt|last=Comito|url=https://aleagues.com.au/news/patrick-beach-jamie-young-melbourne-city-selection-aurelio-vidmar-aleague-men-latest/|title=City coach explains big selection call that paved the way for 21yo's best-on-ground debut|website=A-Leagues|date=19 October 2024|language=en|access-date=2025-01-12}}</ref> Beach played every minute of the season, leading to Young retiring in February 2025.<ref>{{cite news |last1=Harrington |first1=Anna |title=A-League stalwart, City goalkeeper Jamie Young retires |url=https://www.batemansbaypost.com.au/story/8885691/a-league-stalwart-city-goalkeeper-jamie-young-retires/ |access-date=14 February 2025 |work=Bay Post/Moruya Examiner |date=6 February 2025}}</ref> Beach finished the 2024-25 A-League season playing all 29 games for Melbourne City, with 13 clean sheets.

==International career==
Beach was called up to represent the [[Australia men's national under-23 soccer team|Australia U23]] at the [[2024 AFC U-23 Asian Cup]] donning caps in all three group games. He was then called up to the Australia U-23s for the Pacific Aus Sports Football Series in October 2024.<ref>{{cite news|url=https://www.socceroos.com.au/news/subway-australian-u-23-squad-named-pacificaus-sports-football-series|title=Subway Australian U-23 squad named for PacificAus Sports Football Series|publisher=[[Football Australia]] Media|website=[[Australia men's national soccer team|Socceroos]]|date=26 August 2024}}</ref> Beach is the current Captain of the Mens U-23 Australian Team. Beach was recently called up by Australian Men's team coach Tony Popovic as a train on player during the 2025 Socceroos training camp in Sydney. Beach received a call up to the Australian Men's Team in November 2025 for two friendly games against Venezuela and Colombia, both games played in the USA. Beach became Socceroo number #654 making his starting debut in the game against Venezuela on November 14th, 2025, at Shell Stadium, Houston Texas. The game finished in a 0–1 loss to the Socceroos. Beach played a crucial role in the game, making numerous important reflex saves, minimising the final score for his team. Beach on debut was named Player of the Match by Football Australia.

==Career statistics==

===Club===
{{updated|match played 1 November 2025}}<ref name="SW">{{Soccerway|815143|access-date=5 November 2024}}</ref>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
|-
!rowspan="2"|Club
!rowspan="2"|Season
!colspan="3"|League
!colspan="2"|National AUS Cup
!colspan="2"|Continental AFC
!colspan="2"|Total
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|[[Central Coast Mariners FC|Central Coast Mariners]]
|[[2021–22 Central Coast Mariners FC season|2021–22]]
|[[A-League Men]]
|0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
|-
|[[Central Coast Mariners Academy|Central Coast Mariners NPL]]
|2023
|[[National Premier Leagues NSW|NPL NSW]]
|15||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||15||0
|-
|rowspan="3"|[[Melbourne City FC Youth|Melbourne City NPL]]
|2023
|[[National Premier Leagues Victoria|NPL Victoria 2]]
|1||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||1||0
|-
|2024
|[[Victorian Premier League|VPL 1]]
|5||0||colspan="2"|—||colspan="2"|—||5||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total
!21!!0!!colspan="2"|—!!colspan="2"|—!!21!!0
|-
| rowspan="4" |[[Melbourne City FC|Melbourne City]]
|[[2023–24 Melbourne City FC season|2023–24]]
| rowspan="3" |A-League Men
|0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0
|-
|[[2024–25 Melbourne City FC season|2024–25]]
|29||0||0||0||0||0||29||0
|-
|2025-26
|3
|0
|0
|0
|3
|0
|6
|0
|-
! colspan="2" |Total
!32!!0!!0!!0!!0!!0!!35!!0
|-
! colspan="3" |Career total
!53!!0!!0!!0!!0!!0!!56!!0
|}

===International===
{{updated|match played 21 April 2024}}<ref name="SW"/>

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|[[Australia men's national under-23 soccer team|Australia U23]]
|2023||2||0
|-
|Australia U23
|2024
|4
|0
|-
|Australia U23
|2025
|5
|0
|}

==Honours==
'''Melbourne City'''
* [[A-League Men|A-League]]: [[2024–25 A-League Men|2024–25]] Championship Winner

'''Australia U-23'''
* [[WAFF U-23 Championship]]: runner-up [[2024 WAFF U-23 Championship|2024]]<ref>{{ cite web|url = https://www.socceroos.com.au/news/subway-olyroos-squad-waff-u-23-championship-confirmed|title =Subway Olyroos’ Head Coach, Tony Vidmar has named an extended 26-man squad for the fifth edition of the West Asian Football Federation (WAFF) U-23 Championship – Saudi Arabia 2024.|publisher=[[Football Federation Australia]]|access-date=April 6, 2025}}</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* [https://melbournecityfc.com.au/player/patrick-beach/ Profile] at [[Melbourne City FC]]

{{Melbourne City FC squad}}
{{Australia squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Beach, Patrick}}
[[Category:2003 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Soccer players from Sydney]]
[[Category:Men's association football goalkeepers]]
[[Category:Australia men's under-23 international soccer players]]
[[Category:Australian men's soccer players]]
[[Category:National Premier Leagues players]]
[[Category:A-League Men players]]
[[Category:Western City Rangers FC players]]
[[Category:Marconi Stallions FC players]]
[[Category:Central Coast Mariners FC players]]
[[Category:Melbourne City FC players]]
[[Category:21st-century Australian sportsmen]]
[[Category:Australia men's international soccer players]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]