{{Short description|Ecuadorian footballer (born 1987)}}
{{Use British English|date=June 2024}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=November 2022}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Hernán Galíndez
|image = HERNÁN GALÍNDEZ.jpg
|caption = Galíndez with [[C.D. Universidad Católica del Ecuador|Universidad Católica]] in 2016
|full_name = Hernán Ismael Galíndez<ref name="FIFA 2022">{{cite web |url=https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce44/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |title=FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022™ – List of Players: Ecuador (ECU)|publisher=FIFA |page=10 |date=15 November 2022 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20221218195301/https://fdp.fifa.org/assetspublic/ce44/pdf/SquadLists-English.pdf |archive-date=18 December 2022 |url-status=live}}</ref>
|birth_date = {{birth date and age|1987|03|30|df=y}}<ref name="FIFA 2022"/>
|birth_place = [[Rosario]], Argentina
|height = 1.89 m<ref name="soccerway">{{Cite web|title=Ecuador – H. Galíndez – Profile with news, career statistics and history – Soccerway|url=https://us.soccerway.com/players/hernan-ismael-galindez/56569/|access-date=9 October 2020|website=us.soccerway.com}}</ref>
|position = [[Goalkeeper (association football)|Goalkeeper]]
|currentclub = [[Club Atlético Huracán|Huracán]]
|clubnumber = 1
|youthyears1 = 
|youthclubs1 = Alianza Sports ''(seven-a-side)''
|youthyears2 = 
|youthclubs2 = Estrella Juniors
|youthyears3 = 
|youthclubs3 = [[Rosario Central]]
|years1 = 2008–2011
|clubs1 = [[Rosario Central]]
|caps1 = 25
|goals1 = 0
|years2 = 2010–2011
|clubs2 = → [[Quilmes Atlético Club|Quilmes]] (loan)
|caps2 = 15
|goals2 = 0
|years3 = 2012
|clubs3 = [[Rangers de Talca|Rangers]]
|caps3 = 0
|goals3 = 0
|years4 = 2012<ref name=NFT>{{NFT player}}</ref>
|clubs4 = → [[C.D. Universidad Católica del Ecuador|Universidad Católica]] (loan)
|caps4 = 41
|goals4 = 0 <!--Serie B-->
|years5 = 2013–2021
|clubs5 = [[C.D. Universidad Católica del Ecuador|Universidad Católica]]
|caps5 = 319
|goals5 = 1
|years6 = 2022
|clubs6 = [[Club Universidad de Chile|Universidad de Chile]]
|caps6 = 14
|goals6 = 0
|years7 = 2022–2023
|clubs7 = [[S.D. Aucas|Aucas]]
|caps7 = 36
|goals7 = 0
|years8 = 2024–
|clubs8 = [[Club Atlético Huracán|Huracán]]
|caps8 = 79
|goals8 = 0
|nationalyears1 = 2021–
|nationalteam1 = [[Ecuador national football team|Ecuador]]
|nationalcaps1 = 34
|nationalgoals1 = 0
|pcupdate = 21:33, 15 March 2026 (UTC)
|ntupdate = 23:16, 27 March 2026 (UTC)
}}

'''Hernán Ismael Galíndez''' (born 30 March 1987) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Goalkeeper (association football)|goalkeeper]] for [[Argentine Primera División]] club [[Club Atlético Huracán|Huracán]]. Born in Argentina, he represents the [[Ecuador national football team|Ecuador national team]].

Born in Argentina, he began his career in Argentina with [[Rosario Central]] before settling in Ecuador with [[C.D. Universidad Católica del Ecuador|Universidad Católica]], where he made over 300 appearances in a nine-year spell. In 2022, he joined [[Club Universidad de Chile|Universidad de Chile]] but left the club after six months, citing harassment from the club's fanbase. He returned to Ecuador with [[S.D. Aucas|Aucas]], helping the side win the first title in the club's history in his debut season. After a one-and-a-half-year stint in Aucas, he returned to his birth country as he signed with Argentine club, Huracán.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Hernán Galíndez es el primer refuerzo |url=https://cahuracan.com/noticias/hernan-galindez-es-el-primer-refuerzo |access-date=6 July 2024 |website=Club Atlético Huracán}}</ref>

He plays for the Ecuador national team and represented them at the two editions of [[Copa América]] ([[2021 Copa América|2021]] and [[2024 Copa América|2024]]), as well as the [[2022 FIFA World Cup]], playing three times in each tournament.

==Club career==
===Early career===
As a child, Galíndez played for local youth clubs Estrella Juniors and Alianza Sports as a [[midfielder]]. During a local youth tournament at the age of seven, he switched to play as a [[Goalkeeper (association football)|goalkeeper]] and faced a neighbouring team featuring [[Lionel Messi]]. Galíndez later recounted that Messi scored the first goal he had ever conceded, although his team went on to win and  he and his teammates were awarded a bicycle for winning.<ref name="msn">{{cite web |last1=Fajardo |first1=Cristián |title=Messi le anotó su primer gol, fue delantero y duró seis meses en U de Chile: "Mi mamá me guarda una placa" |url=https://www.msn.com/es-cl/deportes/futbol/messi-le-anotó-su-primer-gol-fue-delantero-y-duró-seis-meses-en-u-de-chile-mi-mamá-me-guarda-una-placa/ar-AA1K25e7?cvid=1A291146ED3244C49D3B30F901998085&ocid=hpmsn |website=www.msn.com |access-date=6 August 2025 |language=es |date=6 August 2025}}</ref><ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.ole.com.ar/futbol-internacional/galindez-messi-bicicleta-rosario_0_H0F2vlOzy.html |title=A Messi le gané una bicicleta |website=Ole.com |date=6 October 2020 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref><ref name="Messi2">{{cite news |url=https://www.eluniverso.com/deportes/futbol/hernan-galindez-el-portero-de-ecuador-que-fue-vecino-de-messi-y-que-le-marco-el-primer-gol-de-su-vida-nota/ |title=Hernán Galíndez, el portero de Ecuador que fue vecino de Messi y que le marcó el primer gol de su vida |publisher=El Universo |date=18 November 2022 |accessdate=2 December 2022}}</ref> At the age of 10, he joined the [[Rosario Central]] youth team,<ref name="Messi">{{cite web |last1=Fernández |first1=José Tomás |title="En mi primer torneo a los 5 años me hicieron un solo gol y fue de Messi; éramos vecinos" |url=https://chile.as.com/chile/2022/02/09/futbol/1644436585_087679.html |publisher=[[Diario AS|AS Chile]] |access-date=4 July 2022 |language=es |date=9 February 2022}}</ref> remaining with the club until he was 21, spending a period on loan with [[Quilmes Atlético Club|Quilmes]] during the 2010–11 season. When the club was relegated in 2010, both Galíndez and his family received death threats and he contemplated giving up the game.<ref name="Larrea">{{cite news |url=https://www.primicias.ec/noticias/jugada/hernan-galindez-historia-universidad-catolica-seleccion-ecuador/ |title=Hernán Galíndez, de ser amenazado de muerte a referente en Ecuador |newspaper=Primicias |last=Larrea |first=Felipe |date=1 October 2021 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref>

In 2012, Galíndez was released by Rosario and joined [[Rangers de Talca]], but he only took part in the preseason until he was loaned to [[C.D. Universidad Católica del Ecuador|Universidad Católica del Ecuador]] in the [[Ecuadorian Serie B]].<ref>{{cite web |last1=Muñoz |first1=Patricio |title=La historia del cuestionado "paso" por el fútbol chileno del probable nuevo arquero de la U |url=https://www.encancha.cl/futbol-chileno/u-de-chile/2021/12/12/la-historia-del-cuestionado-paso-por-el-futbol-chileno-del-probable-nuevo-arquero-de-la-136420.html |website=www.encancha.cl |access-date=4 July 2022 |language=es |date=12 December 2021}}</ref> Having never left Argentina before, Galíndez was offered a room by teammate [[Facundo Martínez]] on arrival.<ref name="ref">{{cite news |url=https://www.primicias.ec/noticias/jugada/hernan-galindez-historia-universidad-catolica-seleccion-ecuador/ |title=Hernán Galíndez, de ser amenazado de muerte a referente en Ecuador |newspaper=Primicias |last=Larrea |first=Felipe |date=1 October 2022 |accessdate=2 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref> He helped the club win promotion to the [[Ecuadorian Serie A]] in his first season after playing 41 league matches.<ref name=NFT /><ref name="soccerway"/>

On 6 March 2016, he saved two penalties in a game against [[L.D.U. Quito]], securing a 1–1 draw for his side.<ref name="eight"/>

===Universidad de Chile===
Galíndez signed for Chilean side [[Club Universidad de Chile|Universidad de Chile]] in January 2022 on a two-year deal with the club having the option of a third.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.primicias.ec/noticias/jugada/hernan-galindez-presentado-refuerzo-universidad-chile/ |title=Hernán Galíndez es presentado como refuerzo de Universidad de Chile |publisher=Pimicias |last=Larrea |first=Felipe |date=4 January 2022 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref> He made his debut for the side in a 4–2 victory over [[Unión La Calera]] on 6 February 2022.<ref name="soccerway"/> He made 14 appearances for the side before personal issues led him to request a transfer. After [[FIFA]] rejected [[Chile national football team|Chile]]'s appeal against [[Ecuador national football team|Ecuador]]'s qualification for the [[2022 FIFA World Cup]] over the fielding of an ineligible player, Galíndez claimed he was targeted by angry Chilean fans on social media as an Ecuadorian international. This was the second complaint of harassment by fans made by Galíndez following his transfer after his wife received abusive messages online.<ref name="contra">{{cite news |url=https://www.latercera.com/el-deportivo/noticia/galindez-quiere-irse-el-arquero-ecuatoriano-presiona-a-la-u-acusando-hostigamiento-en-redes-sociales-tras-el-fallo-de-la-fifa-contra-chile/LQJG42NBQNC57P4OEFIE5PVKEM/ |title=Galíndez quiere irse: el arquero ecuatoriano presiona a la U acusando hostigamiento en redes sociales tras el fallo de la FIFA contra Chile |publisher=Latercera |last=Parker |first=Matías |date=15 June 2022 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref>

===Aucas===
Universidad received approaches from L.D.U. Quito,<ref name="contra"/> but Galíndez instead chose to join rival Ecuadorian side [[S.D. Aucas|Aucas]] with the agreed fee being reported around $250,000.<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.latercera.com/el-deportivo/noticia/hernan-galindez-logra-su-objetivo-el-arquero-llega-a-un-acuerdo-para-salir-de-la-u/BQ74CB2LMZHYZBF6YWI4ZM6ZNY/ |title=Hernán Galíndez logra su objetivo: el arquero llega a un acuerdo para salir de la U |publisher=Latercera |last1=Parker |first1=Matías |last2=Fuentealba |first2=Rodrigo |date=1 July 2022 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref><ref>{{cite web |last1=Oyanedel |first1=Martín |title=Hernán Galíndez deja atrás a la U y es anunciado en el Aucas de Ecuador |url=https://www.radioagricultura.cl/deportes/2022/07/04/hernan-galindez-deja-atras-a-la-u-y-es-anunciado-en-el-aucas-de-ecuador/ |publisher=[[Radio Agricultura]] |access-date=4 July 2022 |language=es |date=4 July 2022}}</ref> He made his debut for the club in a 2–0 victory over [[Orense S.C.|Orense]] on 9 July and was not on the losing side for the remainder of the season over 13 matches.<ref name="soccerway"/> He helped the side win the Ecuadorian Serie A for the first time in the club's history,<ref name="retire"/> defeating [[Barcelona S.C.|Barcelona]] 1–0 on aggregate in the final.<ref name="soccerway"/> In the decisive second leg of the final, Galíndez saved a penalty from Barcelona captain [[Damián Díaz]] to help his side to victory and end the season with six consecutive clean sheets.<ref name="soccerway"/><ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.ole.com.ar/ecuador/la-tri/hernan-galindez-aucas-quito-ligapro-final-campeon-barcelona-la-tri-viaje-espana_0_UUyhPjJwjF.html |title=Galíndez: penal atajado, campeón y viaje con La Tri |website=Ole.com |date=14 November 2022 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref>

===Huracán===
Galíndez joined [[CA Huracán|Huracán]] in January 2024.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://cahuracan.com/noticias/hernan-galindez-es-el-primer-refuerzo|title=Hernán Galíndez es el primer refuerzo|date=8 January 2024|access-date=21 December 2025|publisher=[[CA Huracán]]}}</ref> In February of 2025, Galíndez signed a contract extension through 2027.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://cahuracan.com/noticias/galindez-e-ibanez-extendieron-sus-vinculos|title=Galíndez e Ibáñez extendieron sus vínculos|date=21 February 2025|access-date=21 December 2025|publisher=[[CA Huracán]]}}</ref> Galíndez lead Huracán to the [[2025 Torneo Apertura final]], keeping a clean sheet and saving two penalties in the semifinal shootout against [[Club Atlético Independiente|Independiente]].<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://cahuracan.com/noticias/somos-finalistas-del-torneo-apertura|title=¡Somos finalistas del torneo Apertura!|date=24 May 2025|access-date=21 December 2025|publisher=[[CA Huracán]]}}</ref> On May 9, 2026, Galíndez recorded 10 saves against Boca Juniors for the round of 16 of the Torneo Apertura, earning the Man of the Match award and being key for Huracán's 2-3 away victory.

==International career==
Born in Argentina, Galíndez became a nationalised Ecuadorian in February 2019,<ref name="eight"/> a process which he had originally started in 2016.<ref name="ref"/> He was called up to the [[Ecuador national football team|Ecuador national team]] for the first time by manager [[Gustavo Alfaro]] in October 2020 as a replacement for [[Johan Padilla]] who tested positive for [[COVID-19]].<ref>{{cite news |url=https://www.eluniverso.com/deportes/2020/10/05/nota/8003734/vivo-rueda-prensa-gustavo-alfaro-ecuador-argentina-eliminatorias/ |title=Gustavo Alfaro confirma la convocatoria de Hernán Galíndez en sustitución de Johan Padilla, afectado por COVID-19 |publisher=El Universo |date=5 October 2020 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref> He was selected for the Ecuador squad for the [[2021 Copa América]]<ref>{{cite tweet|author=[[Ecuadorian Football Federation]]|user=LaTri|number=1402825519754797058|title=¡Y los convocados son! Estos son los elegidos por el DT #GustavoAlfaro para encarar un desafío continental: la @CopaAmerica.|date=9 June 2021|access-date=9 June 2021|language=es}}</ref> and made his international debut on 23 June 2021 in a 2–2 draw with [[Peru national football team|Peru]] in Ecuador's third group match.<ref>{{cite web|publisher=[[ESPN]]|url=https://www.espn.com/soccer/lineups?gameId=560505|title=Ecuador v Peru game report|date=23 June 2021|accessdate=12 August 2021}}</ref> He played the remainder of his side's matches as they reached the quarter-finals before being eliminated by [[Argentina national football team|Argentina]].<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.national-football-teams.com/player/83044/Hernan_Galindez.html |title=Hernán Galíndez |website=national-football-teams.com |last=Strack-Zimmermann |first=Benjamin |accessdate=2 December 2022}}</ref>

After going seven games without conceding a goal,<ref name="retire">{{cite web |url=https://www.ole.com.ar/ecuador/la-tri/hernan-galindez-se-despide-de-la-seleccion-pide-perdon_0_1JMKR3fCkR.html |title=Galíndez pidió perdón y se despidió de la Selección |website=Ole.com |date=30 November 2022 |accessdate=1 December 2022 |language=es}}</ref> Galíndez was selected for the 2022 FIFA World Cup<ref>{{cite tweet |author=Ecuador national football team |author-link=Ecuador national football team |user=LaTri |number=1592288685797494784 |date=14 November 2022 |title=Aquí están los 26 jugadores elegidos por el DT Gustavo Alfaro para jugar la Copa Mundial FIFA, estamos listos para hacer historia |trans-title=Here are the 26 players chosen by head coach Gustavo Alfaro to play the FIFA World Cup, we are ready to make history. |language=es |access-date=14 November 2022}}</ref> and was chosen as the starting goalkeeper in all three of his nation's matches, ahead of [[Alexander Domínguez]], as they were eliminated in the group stage.<ref name="soccerway"/>

Galíndez was called up to the final 26-man Ecuador squad for the [[2024 Copa América]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.eluniverso.com/deportes/futbol/ecuador-presenta-lista-oficial-para-la-copa-america-gonzalo-plata-y-robert-arboleda-quedaron-relegados-nota/|title=Ecuador presenta lista oficial para la Copa América: Gonzalo Plata y Robert Arboleda quedaron relegados|trans-title=Ecuador presents official roster for Copa America: Gonzalo Plata and Robert Arboleda left off the list|publisher=[[El Universo]]|date=29 May 2024|language=es}}</ref>

==Style of play==
Galíndez has been described as a "complete goalkeeper", possessing quick reflexes but also being able to play well with the ball at his feet.<ref name="eight">{{cite news |url=https://www.primicias.ec/noticias/jugada/eldeportequequeremos/mejores-momentos-hernan-galindez-ecuador-futbol/ |title=Los mejores ocho momentos de Hernán Galíndez en Universidad Católica |newspaper=Primicias |last=Larrea |first=Felipe |date=19 December 2022 |accessdate=1 December 2022}}</ref>

==Personal life==
Galíndez has a twin brother.<ref name="Larrea"/><ref name="msn"/>

==Career statistics==
===International===
{{updated|27 March 2026|<ref>{{NFT}}</ref>}}

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align:center"
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="6"|[[Ecuador national football team|Ecuador]]
|2021||7||0
|-
|2022||8||0
|-
|2023||3||0
|-
|2024||7||0
|-
|2025||8||0
|-
|2026||1||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!34!!0
|}

==Honours==
'''Universidad Católica'''
*[[Ecuadorian Serie B]]: {{ill|2012 Ecuadorian Serie B|lt=2012|es|Campeonato Ecuatoriano de Fútbol Serie B 2012|vertical-align=sup}}

'''Aucas'''
*[[Ecuadorian Serie A]]: 2022<ref name="soccerway"/>

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
{{commons category|Hernán Galíndez}}
* {{BDFA|HERNAN-ISMAEL-GALINDEZ-65824}}
* {{Soccerway|hernan-ismael-galindez/56569}}
* {{NFT player}}

{{Club Atlético Huracán squad}}
{{Navboxes
| bg = #FFDD00
| fg = #034EA2
| bordercolor = #ED1C24
| title = Ecuador squads
| list1 =
{{Ecuador squad 2021 Copa América}}
{{Ecuador squad 2022 FIFA World Cup}}
{{Ecuador squad 2024 Copa América}}
{{Ecuador squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Galindez, Hernan}}
[[Category:1987 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Argentine emigrants to Ecuador]]
[[Category:Naturalized citizens of Ecuador]]
[[Category:Footballers from Rosario, Santa Fe]]
[[Category:Ecuadorian men's footballers]]
[[Category:21st-century Ecuadorian sportsmen]]
[[Category:Sportspeople of Argentine descent]]
[[Category:Ecuador men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Argentine men's footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football goalkeepers]]
[[Category:2021 Copa América players]]
[[Category:2022 FIFA World Cup players]]
[[Category:2024 Copa América players]]
[[Category:Argentine Primera División players]]
[[Category:Primera Nacional players]]
[[Category:Ecuadorian Serie A players]]
[[Category:Chilean Primera División players]]
[[Category:Rosario Central footballers]]
[[Category:Quilmes Atlético Club footballers]]
[[Category:Rangers de Talca footballers]]
[[Category:C.D. Universidad Católica del Ecuador footballers]]
[[Category:Club Universidad de Chile footballers]]
[[Category:S.D. Aucas footballers]]
[[Category:Club Atlético Huracán footballers]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Ecuador]]
[[Category:Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Ecuador]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Chile]]
[[Category:Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Chile]]
[[Category:Ecuadorian expatriate sportspeople in Chile]]
[[Category:21st-century Argentine sportsmen]]
[[Category:Argentine twins]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]