{{Short description|Ghanaian footballer (born 2006)}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=February 2026}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Caleb Yirenkyi
|image = 
|fullname = Caleb Marfo Yirenkyi
|birth_date = {{birth date and age|2006|01|15|df=y}}
|birth_place = [[Bechem]], Ghana
|height = 1.82 m<ref>{{WorldFootball|id=caleb-marfo-yirenkyi}}</ref>
|position = [[Midfielder]], [[Full-back (association football)|full-back]]
|currentclub = [[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]]
|clubnumber = 36
|youthyears1 = 2017–2024
|youthclubs1 = [[Right to Dream Academy|Right to Dream]]
|youthyears2 = 2024
|youthclubs2 = [[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]]
|years1 = 2024–
|clubs1 = [[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]]
|caps1 = 47
|goals1 = 4
|nationalyears1 = 2025–
|nationalteam1 = [[Ghana national football team|Ghana]]
|nationalcaps1 = 11
|nationalgoals1 = 1
|pcupdate = 17:30, 17 May 2026 (UTC)
|ntupdate = 2 June 2026
}}

'''Caleb Marfo Yirenkyi''' (born 15 January 2006) is a Ghanaian [[Association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[midfielder]] for [[Danish Superliga]] club [[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]] and the [[Ghana national football team|Ghana national team]].

==Club career==
===Nordsjælland===
Born in [[Bechem]], [[Ahafo Region]], Ghana, Yirenkyi was a product of the [[Right to Dream Academy]], which he joined in 2017 at the age of 11.<ref>{{cite web |title=Portræt: Den dedikerede Caleb Yirenkyi |url=https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2025/april/den-dedikerede-caleb-yirenkyi |website=FC Nordsjælland |access-date=5 February 2026 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20250405081007/https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2025/april/den-dedikerede-caleb-yirenkyi |archive-date=5 April 2025 |language=da |date=5 April 2025 |trans-title=Portrait: The dedicated Caleb Yirenkyi}}</ref> He turned 18 in January 2024 and in March 2024 [[FC Nordsjælland]] confirmed that Yirenkyi became part of the club's academy and had just made his debut for the club's U-19 team.<ref>[https://bold.dk/fodbold/klubber/fc-nordsjaelland/nyheder/fc-nordsjaelland-tilknytter-nyt-talent-fra-ghana FC Nordsjælland tilknytter nyt talent fra Ghana], bold.dk, 3 March 2024</ref><ref>[https://www.righttodream.com/post/caleb-yirenkyi-another-graduate-joins-fc-nordsj%C3%A6lland Caleb Yirenkyi: Another Graduate Joins FC Nordsjælland], righttodream.com, 2 May 2024</ref><ref>[https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2024/maj/ny-midtbanespiller-pa-akademiet-caleb-yirenkyi Ny midtbanespiller på akademiet: Caleb Yirenkyi], fcn.dk, 2 May 2024</ref>

In the summer of 2024, Yirenkyi attended a training camp with the Nordsjælland first team squad.<ref>[https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2024/juli/her-er-truppen-til-sommerens-traeningslejr Her er truppen til sommerens træningslejr], fcn.dk, 3 July 2024</ref><ref>[https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2024/juli/ungdommen-pa-traeningslejren De unge drenge på træningslejren], fcn.dk, 9 July 2024</ref><ref>[https://www.tipsbladet.dk/nyhed/superliga/fcn-giver-syv-talenter-chancen-paa-foersteholdet FCN giver syv talenter chancen på førsteholdet], tipsbladet.dk, 26 June 2024</ref> From here Yirenkyi started training more with the first team.

Yirenkyi sat on the bench in Nordsjælland's first two matches in the [[2024-25 Danish Superliga]].<ref>[https://nr.soccerway.com/matches/2024/07/19/denmark/superliga/fc-nordsjalland/aalborg-bk/4362623/ Nordsjælland vs. AaB  3 - 0], soccerway.com, 19 July 2024</ref><ref>[https://nr.soccerway.com/matches/2024/07/27/denmark/superliga/fc-nordsjalland/fc-midtjylland/4362629/ Nordsjælland vs. Midtjylland  2 - 2], soccerway.com, 27 July 2024</ref> His debut, however, came on 20 September 2024, when he replaced [[Peter Ankersen]] in the 85th minute in a match against [[Viborg FF]].<ref>[https://nr.soccerway.com/matches/2024/09/20/denmark/superliga/viborg-ff/fc-nordsjalland/4362674/ Viborg vs. Nordsjælland  3 - 2], soccerway.com, 20 September 2024</ref><ref>[https://www.instagram.com/fcnordsjaelland/reel/DAJ0N4PBgIb/ Der var debut til 𝐂𝐚𝐥𝐞𝐛 𝐘𝐢𝐫𝐞𝐧𝐤𝐲𝐢 i aftenens kamp 🔴🟡⁠], instagram.com, 20 September 2024</ref>

On 2 February 2025, Nordsjælland confirmed that Yirenkyi had been permanently promoted to the first team squad and had signed a new contract until the end of 2029.<ref>[https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2025/februar/academy-to-superliga-caleb-yirenkyi Academy to Superliga: Caleb Yirenkyi], fcn.dk, 2 February 2025</ref> Yirenkyi quickly established himself in the team right after his contract extension, starting in the first three matches of the year. His performances led to the media beginning to draw comparisons between him and [[Michael Essien]].<ref>[https://yen.com.gh/sports/football/278514-new-michael-essien-ghanaian-wonderkid-caleb-yirenkyi-bosses-midfield-denmark-video/ New Michael Essien? Ghanaian Wonderkid Caleb Yirenkyi], yen.com.gh, 1 March 2025</ref><ref>[https://altomfuresoe.dk/her-er-fc-nordsjaellands-nye-lokomotiv/ Her er FC Nordsjællands nye lokomotiv], altomfuresoe.dk, 21 February 2025</ref> In October he extended his contract with Nordsjælland again, now valid until summer 2030.<ref>{{Cite web |title=Caleb Yirenkyi forlænger til sommeren 2030 |url=https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2025/oktober/caleb-yirenkyi-2030 |access-date=30 October 2025 |website=fcn.dk |language=da}}</ref>

==International career==
In May 2025, Yirenkyi received his first call-up to the [[Ghana national football team|Ghana senior national team]] for the [[2025 Unity Cup]].<ref>[https://fcn.dk/nyheder/2025/maj/a-landsholdsopgaver 8 FCN spillere på A-landsholdsopgaver], fcn.dk, 27 May 2025</ref> He made his debut on 28 May 2025 against [[Nigeria national football team|Nigeria]], coming on at the start of the second half in a 1–2 defeat.<ref>[https://ghanasoccernet.com/caleb-yirenkyi-impresses-with-assured-45-minutes-on-debut-at-right-back Caleb Yirenkyi impresses with assured 45 minutes on debut at right-back], ghanasoccernet.com, 28 May 2025</ref> He scored his first international goal on 2 June 2026 in a 1–1 draw against [[Wales national football team|Wales]].<ref>{{cite web|url=https://sport.tv2.dk/live/fodbold/2024-12-19-brentford-henter-liverpool-keeper/fcn-stjerne-hyldes--kan-blive-en-af-de-bedste-paa-landsholdet?entry=81d9aba0-ddf3-4173-892a-d0f684b6494e|title=FCN-stjerne hyldes: - Kan blive en af de bedste på landsholdet|publisher=TV2 Danmark|date=3 June 2026|access-date=3 June 2026|language=da}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===Club===
{{updated|match played 17 May 2026}}

{| class="wikitable" style="text-align: center"
|+ Appearances and goals by club, season and competition
|-
!rowspan=2|Club
!rowspan=2|Season
!colspan=3|League
!colspan=2|[[Danish Cup]]
!colspan=2|Continental
!colspan=2|Total 
|-
!Division!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="2"|[[FC Nordsjælland|Nordsjælland]]
|[[2024–25 FC Nordsjælland season|2024–25]]
|[[Danish Superliga]]
|17||2||1||0||colspan="2"|—||18||2
|-
|[[2025–26 Danish Superliga|2025–26]]
|Danish Superliga
|30||2||4||0||colspan="2"|—||34||2
|-
!colspan="3"|Career total
!47!!4!!5!!0!!0!!0!!52!!4
|}
{{notelist}}

===International===
{{updated|match played 2 June 2026}} <ref name="Caleb Yirenkyi NFT">{{NFT|99656|name=Caleb Yirenkyi|accessdate=2 June 2026}}</ref>

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
|-
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="2"|[[Ghana national football team|Ghana]]
|2025||8||0
|-
|2026||3||1
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!11!!1
|}

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! No. !! Date !! Venue !! Opponent !! Score !! Result !! Competition
|-
|+List of international goals scored by Caleb Yirenkyi
|-
| 1. || 2 June 2026 || [[Cardiff City Stadium]], [[Cardiff]], [[Wales]] || {{fb|WAL}} || align=center|'''1'''–0 || align=center| 1–1 || [[Exhibition match|Friendly]]
|-
|}

==Honours==
'''Individual'''
*[[Danish Superliga]] Young Player of the Year [[2025–26 Danish Superliga|2025–26]]<ref>{{cite news|url=https://sport.tv2.dk/live/fodbold/2024-12-19-brentford-henter-liverpool-keeper/fcn-stjerne-vinder-pris?entry=07de6e9d-522f-42c3-8bf0-9949f350c6d9|publisher=TV2 Danmark|title=FCN-stjerne vinder pris |date=16 May 2026|access-date=16 May 2026|language=da}}</ref>
*Danish Superliga Young Player of the Month: [[2025–26 Danish Superliga|August 2025]],<ref>{{Cite web |title=Caleb Yirenkyi named Danish Superliga Young Player of the Month for August |url=https://www.myjoyonline.com/caleb-yirenkyi-named-danish-superliga-young-player-of-the-month-for-august/ |access-date=17 October 2025 |language=en-US}}</ref> [[2025–26 Danish Superliga|February 2026<ref>{{cite news |last1=Bech |first1=Malthe |title=Caleb Yirenkyi vinder SL-pris |url=https://bold.dk/fodbold/klubber/fc-nordsjaelland/nyheder/caleb-yirenkyi-vinder-sl-pris |access-date=12 May 2026 |work=Bold |date=2 March 2026 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20260302170815/https://bold.dk/fodbold/klubber/fc-nordsjaelland/nyheder/caleb-yirenkyi-vinder-sl-pris |archive-date=2 March 2026 |language=da |trans-title=Caleb Yirenkiy wins Superliga award}}</ref>]]
* Danish Superliga Team of the Year: [[2025–26 Danish Superliga|2025–26]]<ref>{{cite web |title=Thomas Jørgensen på Årets Hold i 3F Superliga |publisher=Viborg FF |date=29 May 2026 |url=https://vff.dk/nyhed/sport/15730-thomas-jorgensen-pa-arets-hold-i-3f-superliga |language=da |access-date=29 May 2026}}</ref>

==References==
{{Reflist|2}}

==External links==
* {{Soccerway|caleb-marfo-yirenkyi/976232}}

{{FC Nordsjælland squad}}
{{Ghana squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Yirenkyi, Caleb}}
[[Category:2006 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:People from Ahafo Region]]
[[Category:Ghanaian men's footballers]]
[[Category:21st-century Ghanaian sportsmen]]
[[Category:Ghanaian expatriate men's footballers]]
[[Category:Ghana men's international footballers]]
[[Category:Men's association football midfielders]]
[[Category:Ghana men's A' international footballers]]
[[Category:Right to Dream Academy players]]
[[Category:FC Nordsjælland players]]
[[Category:Danish Superliga players]]
[[Category:Ghanaian expatriate sportspeople in Denmark]]
[[Category:Expatriate men's footballers in Denmark]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]