{{short description|Haitian footballer}}
{{Use dmy dates|date=May 2026}}
{{Infobox football biography
|name = Duke Lacroix
|image = 
|fullname = Markhus Lacroix
|birth_date = {{Birth date and age|1993|10|14|df=y}}
|birth_place = [[New Egypt, New Jersey]], United States
|height = {{height|m=1.75}}
|currentclub = [[Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC|Colorado Springs Switchbacks]]
|clubnumber = 14
|position = [[Full back (association football)|Full back]], [[Winger (association football)|winger]]
|collegeyears1 = 2011–2014
|college1 = [[Penn Quakers men's soccer|Penn Quakers]]
|years1 = 2012–2013
|clubs1 = [[Ocean City Nor'easters]]
|caps1 = 21
|goals1 = 4
|years2 = 2015–2016
|clubs2 = [[Indy Eleven]]
|caps2 = 34
|goals2 = 3
|years3 = 2017
|clubs3 = [[Orange County SC]]
|caps3 = 5
|goals3 = 2
|years4 = 2018–2019
|clubs4 = [[Reno 1868 FC|Reno 1868]]
|caps4 = 59
|goals4 = 4
|years5 = 2020
|clubs5 = [[Charlotte Independence]]
|caps5 = 16
|goals5 = 0
|years6 = 2021–2022
|clubs6 = [[Sacramento Republic FC|Sacramento Republic]]
|caps6 = 60
|goals6 = 2
|years7 = 2023–
|clubs7 = [[Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC|Colorado Springs Switchbacks]]
|caps7 = 74
|goals7 = 2
|nationalyears1 = 2024–
|nationalteam1 = [[Haiti national football team|Haiti]]
|nationalcaps1 = 15
|nationalgoals1 = 2
|pcupdate = 7 March 2026
|ntupdate = 2 June 2026
}}

'''Markhus '''"'''Duke'''"''' Lacroix''' (born 14 October 1993) is a professional [[association football|footballer]] who plays as a [[Full-back (association football)|full-back]] for [[Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC|Colorado Springs Switchbacks]] in the [[USL Championship]]. Born in the United States, he plays for the [[Haiti national football team|Haiti national team]].

==Career==
===Youth===
Lacroix grew up in the [[New Egypt, New Jersey|New Egypt]] section of [[Plumsted Township, New Jersey]]. He attended the [[Lawrenceville School]], where he played soccer and ran track.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.indyeleven.com/news/2015/05/21/indy-eleven-sign-striker-duke-lacroix|title=Indy Eleven Sign Striker Duke Lacroix; Speedy Univ. of Pennsylvania product brings roster to 23 players|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160112222114/http://www.indyeleven.com/news/2015/05/21/indy-eleven-sign-striker-duke-lacroix|publisher=Indy Eleven|archive-date=12 January 2016|date=21 May 2015|access-date=17 October 2015}}</ref> The native of New Egypt, N.J., attended The Lawrenceville School, where he played four years of soccer and ran three years of track his high school, his tenure as a runner including a 4x400 relay win at the prestigious Penn Relays. He was a member of the U.S. Under-14 and Under-15 Boys National Teams and was also a member of the U.S. Under-18 Men's National Team player pool following his time in New Jersey's Olympic Development Program.

He played four years of [[College soccer in the United States|college soccer]] at the [[University of Pennsylvania]] between 2011 and 2014.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.pennathletics.com/ViewArticle.dbml?DB_OEM_ID%3D1700%26ATCLID%3D205157539 |title=Duke Lacroix Bio |website=pennathletics.com |publisher=Penn Athletics|access-date=17 October 2015 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151117025110/http://www.pennathletics.com/ViewArticle.dbml?DB_OEM_ID=1700&ATCLID=205157539 |archive-date=17 November 2015 }}</ref> While at the University of Pennsylvania, the two-time captain served as one of only three players in school history to receive four All-Ivy League honors (First-team honoree in 2013 & 2014, Second-team in 2012 and Honorable Mention in 2011). He was also the only Quakers player ever to be named both the Ivy League's Rookie of the Year (2011) and an Ivy League Player of the Year (Offensive POY in 2013). Lacroix graduated with the third most appearances in Penn history with 68, during which he racked up the fifth most points with 65, coming from 25 goals and 15 assists – including seven goals and an Ivy League-best six assists as a senior in 2014. While in college, Lacroix also appeared for [[USL League Two|Premier Development League]] side [[Ocean City Nor'easters]] in 2012 and 2013.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.oceancityfc.com/Roster_PDL/719514.html |title=Markhus "Duke" Lacroix |website=oceancityfc.com|publisher=Ocean City Football Club|access-date=17 October 2015 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20151117024142/http://www.oceancityfc.com/Roster_PDL/719514.html |archive-date=17 November 2015 |url-status=dead }}</ref>

===Professional===
Lacroix signed for [[North American Soccer League (2011–2017)|North American Soccer League]] side [[Indy Eleven]] on 21 May 2015.<ref>{{Cite web |url=http://www.indyeleven.com/news/2015/05/21/indy-eleven-sign-striker-duke-lacroix |title=Indy Eleven Sign Striker Duke Lacroix |website=indyeleven.com |publisher=Indy Eleven |date=21 May 2015 |access-date=17 October 2015 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160112222114/http://www.indyeleven.com/news/2015/05/21/indy-eleven-sign-striker-duke-lacroix |archive-date=12 January 2016 |url-status=dead }}</ref> He made his first appearance for the club in a 0–2 loss to [[Louisville City FC]] in the [[2015 U.S. Open Cup#Third Round|US Open Cup]] on 27 May 2015. His first goal for the club was the game-winning goal in a 3–0 victory over [[FC Edmonton]] on 13 June 2015. He would go on to play a total of 34 games and score three goals across two seasons with the Eleven, including the 2016 NASL Goal of the Year.<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.indyeleven.com/roster/duke-lacroix|title=Indy Eleven - Roster - Duke Lacroix|website=indyeleven.com|publisher=Indy Eleven|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150906123956/http://www.indyeleven.com/roster/duke-lacroix|archive-date=6 September 2015}}</ref> The following season, Lacroix signed to the [[United Soccer League]] side [[Orange County SC|Orange County Soccer Club]] on 15 March 2017.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.orangecountysoccer.com/news_article/show/769894?referrer_id=2576979|title=Orange County SC Sign Forward Duke Lacroix |website=orangecountysoccer.com|publisher=Orange County SC|date=15 March 2017|access-date=13 May 2020}}</ref> The following April, he signed for [[Reno 1868 FC]] in the United Soccer League.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.reno1868fc.com/news_article/show/909681|title=Duke Lacroix Inks Deal With Reno 1868 FC|website=reno1868fc.com|publisher=Reno 1868 FC|date=19 April 2018|access-date=13 May 2020|archive-date=26 April 2018|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180426145344/https://www.reno1868fc.com/news_article/show/909681|url-status=dead}}</ref> Lacroix played two seasons in Reno as a left back. He started 34 games in his second season, amassing 3,060 minutes played for the club. For the 2020 season, Lacroix signed to the United Soccer League side [[Charlotte Independence]] as a left back.<ref>{{cite web |url=https://www.charlotteindependence.com/news_article/show/1085743|title=Independence Scoop Speedy, Championship Leftback |website=charlotteindependence.com|publisher=Charlotte Independence|date=10 February 2020|access-date=13 May 2020}}</ref>

On 8 December 2020, Lacroix signed with [[Sacramento Republic FC]].<ref>{{cite web |title=REPUBLIC FC ADD VERSATILE DEFENDER DUKE LACROIX |url=https://www.sacrepublicfc.com/news_article/show/1136299 |website=SacRepublicFC.com |access-date=9 December 2020}}</ref>

Following the 2022 season, it was announced Lacroix would join USL Championship side [[Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC|Colorado Springs Switchbacks]] for the 2023 season.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.uslchampionship.com/news_article/show/1251625-switchbacks-bring-aboard-defender-duke-lacroix|title=Switchbacks bring aboard defender Duke Lacroix|author=USLChampionship com Staff|date=14 December 2022|website=USL Championship}}</ref>

==International career==
Born in the United States, Lacroix is of Haitian descent. He was called up to the [[Haiti national football team]] for a set of [[2023–24 CONCACAF Nations League]] matches in September 2023.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://gazette.com/sports/switchbacks/switchbacks-sign-defender-delentz-pierre-as-duke-lacroix-romario-williams-are-tabbed-for-international-duty/article_f6b758ec-4d10-11ee-bf54-e7226cd07947.html|title=Switchbacks sign defender Delentz Pierre as "Duke" Lacroix, Romario Williams are tabbed for international duty|first=Hugh Johnson|last=hugh.johnson@gazette.com|date=6 September 2023|website=Colorado Springs Gazette}}</ref>

==Career statistics==
===International===
{{updated|match played 2 June 2026}}

{| class=wikitable style=text-align:center
|+ Appearances and goals by national team and year
!National team!!Year!!Apps!!Goals
|-
|rowspan="4"|[[Haiti national football team|Haiti]]
|2023||1||0
|-
|2024||5||2
|-
|2025||7||0
|-
|2026||2||0
|-
!colspan="2"|Total!!15!!2
|}

:''Scores and results list Haiti's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Lacroix goal''

{| class="wikitable sortable"
|+ List of international goals scored by Duke Lacroix
|-
!scope="col"|No.
!scope="col"|Date
!scope="col"|Venue
!scope="col"|Opponent
!scope="col"|Score
!scope="col"|Result
!scope="col"|Competition
|-
|align=center|1||9 June 2024||[[Wildey Turf]], [[Wildey]], Barbados||{{fb|BRB}}||align=center|3–0||align=center|8–0||[[2024–25 CONCACAF Nations League B#Group D|2024–25 CONCACAF Nations League]]
|-
|align=center|2||15 November 2024||[[Mayagüez Athletics Stadium]], [[Mayagüez, Puerto Rico|Mayagüez]], Puerto Rico||{{fb|SMA}}||align=center|2–0||align=center|3–1||[[2026 FIFA World Cup qualification – CONCACAF second round|2026 FIFA World Cup qualification]]
|-
|align=center|3||2 June 2026||[[Inter Miami CF Stadium]], [[Fort Lauderdale, Florida|Fort Lauderdale]], United States|| {{fb|NZL}}||align=center|4–0 ||align=center|4–0||[[Exhibition game#Association football|Friendly]]
|}

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==External links==
* [http://www.indyeleven.com/roster/duke-lacroix Indy Eleven Profile] {{Webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20150906123956/http://www.indyeleven.com/roster/duke-lacroix |date=6 September 2015 }}.

{{Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC squad}}
{{Navboxes
| title = Haiti squads
| bg = #00209F
| fg = white
| bordercolor = #D21034
| list1 =
{{Haiti squad 2025 CONCACAF Gold Cup}}
{{Haiti squad 2026 FIFA World Cup}}
}}
{{Ivy League Men's Soccer Player of the Year navbox}}

{{DEFAULTSORT:Lacroix, Duke}}
[[Category:1993 births]]
[[Category:Living people]]
[[Category:Haitian men's footballers]]
[[Category:Haiti men's international footballers]]
[[Category:American men's soccer players]]
[[Category:American people of Haitian descent]]
[[Category:Sportspeople of Haitian descent]]
[[Category:Penn Quakers men's soccer players]]
[[Category:Ocean City Nor'easters players]]
[[Category:Indy Eleven players]]
[[Category:Orange County SC players]]
[[Category:Reno 1868 FC players]]
[[Category:Charlotte Independence players]]
[[Category:Men's association football forwards]]
[[Category:Soccer players from Ocean County, New Jersey]]
[[Category:North American Soccer League (2011–2017) players]]
[[Category:USL League Two players]]
[[Category:People from Plumsted Township, New Jersey]]
[[Category:Sacramento Republic FC players]]
[[Category:Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC players]]
[[Category:2025 CONCACAF Gold Cup players]]
[[Category:21st-century American sportsmen]]
[[Category:21st-century Haitian sportsmen]]
[[Category:2026 FIFA World Cup players]]